[{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. And welcome to NVIDIA's conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. With me on the call today from NVIDIA are Jen-Hsun Huang, President and Chief Executive Officer and Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. I'd like to remind you that our call is being webcast live on NVIDIA's Investor Relations Web site."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"As we look past Q1, we expect the channel inventory correction to be behind us and our business to have bottomed. On a full year basis, we expect our gaming business to be down slightly given the tough first half compares with growth in Turing and notebook gaming. At CES last month, we launched into the recovery of our gaming business. We announced the GeForce RTX 2060 at the mid range price point of [$349] [ph]. The 2060 delivers a 60% performance improvement over the GTX 1060 while also bringing Turing's real time ray tracing and AI features to the mass market for the first time. The 2060 has received rave reviews and is off to a great start."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your last question comes from the line of Harlan Sur with JP Morgan."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"On the China gaming weakness, is it the slower economic environment or is it government policy related? Because we know that the Chinese government has had a freeze on new gaming approvals, probably recently started to approve new games. This ban is in place I think since the first half of last year. So given what you know the business, how much of the China weakness is coming from China gaming bans versus just overall slower economic environment?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I don't know that we could tear that apart, tease that apart, Harlan. We just know that, the China, the consumer market is relatively slow towards the end of the year. And the China economy is in the final analysis of growth economy. And so we're looking forward to it recovering. And gaming is one of the most important pass-times of their culture and so I'm excited about our prospects there. All the things that we're seeing in the near-term, Colette has done a really good job of describing and as we leave the bottom and leave this inventory issue behind us, we're super well positioned. We have a full stack of RTX. The Turing architecture is fantastic. It is unquestionably the best in the world. We have the best performance at every single price point. And we have great notebooks that the market can now buy. And so I'm looking forward to reporting our status with you guys as the year goes on. It should be a good year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you. I'll now turn the call back over to Jen-Hsun for any closing remarks."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"2018 was a record year but it was a disappointing finish. This quarter, we expect to put the channel inventory issue behind us and get back on track. As the pioneer of accelerated computing, our position is unique and strong. And the opportunities ahead in graphic, high performance computing, AI and autonomous machines remain enormous. We are as enthusiastic about these growth opportunities as ever. Thanks everyone for joining us today."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And this concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In addition, we announced a record of 40 plus new Turing based gaming laptops, which became available on January 29th.This is more than double the number of GeForce powered notebooks in the market last year. Featuring the energy efficiency of the Turing architecture [indiscernible] the laptops are able to deliver the performance of desktop gaming PCs. We expect GeForce laptops to continue to be the fastest growing segment of gaming."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We're also pleased to see growing momentum in the RTX ecosystem. As more game developers are creating content to take advantage of the Turing architectures' amazing capabilities. Just this week, DLSS technology is becoming available in two blockbuster games, Battlefield 5 and Metro Exodus, and Anthem coming soon. In addition at CES, Justice and Atomic Heart showed demos featuring ray tracing and DLSS, and the large pipelines of games plan to integrate RTX technology."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Pairing DLSS with ray tracing can provide comparable frame rates to traditional restorization but also much more beautiful cinematic visual, the best of both worlds. This is the next generation of gaming. While this was a challenging quarter in our gaming business we look forward to putting the channel inventory correction behind us and building on the solid foundation of our Turing architecture."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Moving to data center. Revenue was $679 million, up 12% year-on-year and down 14% sequentially. Full year data center revenue was $2.93 billion, up a strong 52%. The Q4 sales decline was broad based across verticals and markets and geographies. As the quarter progressed, customers around the world became increasingly cautious due to rising economic uncertainty and the number of deals did not close in January."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"In addition, hyperscale and cloud purchases declined both sequentially and year-on-year as several customers paused at the end of the year. We believe the pause is temporary. The strength of NVIDIA's accelerated computing platform remains intact. We continue to lead the industry in performance for scientific computing and deep learning. And with CUDA's programability, we can continue to expand the value of our platform."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"For example, we recently announced RAPIDS, our CUDA acceleration stack for data analytics and machine learning. In December, the first objective third-party AI benchmark called MLPerf became available. And NVIDIA captured the top spots in the six test categories for training deep learning models that we competed in. And in January, Google Cloud announced that NVIDIA T4 Tensor Core GPUs are now available in beta in its data centers in the U.S., Europe, Brazil, India, Singapore and Tokyo. The T4 is a universal cloud GPU that accelerates a variety of workloads, including high-performance computing, deep learning training and inference, broader machine learning, data analytics and graphics."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our visibility remains low in the current cautious spending environment, and we don't forecast a meaningful recovery in the data center segment until later in the year. However, we are working closely with hyperscales around the world to integrate NVIDIA TensorRT software and Tensor Core GPUs into their inference production flow. Inference currently drives less than 10% of our data center business, while represents a significant expansion of our addressable market opportunity going forward."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We have also strengthened our product portfolio and go-to-market capabilities to address vertical industries that have an enormous data and analytics requirement, such as automotive, financial services, retail, healthcare and consumer Internet services. With our RAPIDS software stack, NVIDIA can accelerate data analytics and machine learning and as we have done in deep learning. And we made it easier for customers to adopt our technology by partnering with Cisco, IBM, NetApp and Pure Storage to create pre-integrated systems that can be sold through their global IT channels."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Moving to pro visualization, revenue reached $293 million, up 15% from the prior year and down 4% sequentially. Full year revenue was $1.13 billion, up 21% year-on-year. New applications like data science, AI and VR, as well as the need for thin and light mobile workstations remain key growth drivers for the business. We had key wins in the quarter, including Boeing, Google, LinkedIn and Toyota for applications including AI and robotics. This past week with our partners HP, Dell, Lenovo, we announced the availability of Quadro RTX workstation. Quadro RTX is the most significant workstation GPU upgrade in 10 years. It will enable millions of designers and creative artists for the first time to work interactively with super high resolution media and photorealistic 3D rendering, enabling them to be creative with dramatically improved productivity."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The webcast will be available for replay until the conference call to discuss our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The content of today's call is NVIDIA's property. It can't be reproduced or transcribed without our prior written consent."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Finally, turning to automotive. Q4 revenue was $163 million, up 23% from a year ago and down 5% sequentially. Full year revenue reached $641 million, up 15%. The sequential decline was largely seasonal. The year-on-year growth was driven by the increasingly adoption of next generation AI cockpit solutions and autonomous vehicle development deals, partially offset by declines in legacy infotainment. Last month at CES, we announced DRIVE AutoPilot, the world's first commercially available level two plus self driving car computer. This system offers sophisticated automated driving features that far surpassed today's ADAS offerings, increasing the vehicles' performance, functionality and road safety, while the driver remains in control."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"To deliver these capabilities, DRIVE AutoPilot uses multiple deep neural networks surround camera perception both in and outside of the car and significant AI processing capability. Systems from our Tier 1 partners, including Bosch, Continental, Veoneer, and ZF were all on-display at our booths. Although, as announced back in October, it was our first level two plus design win with cars slated for production in the early 2020s."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Mercedes-Benz has also chosen NVIDIA for its next generation autonomous vehicle and cockpit computer. This centralized AI computing system replaces dozens of smaller processors inside current cars. DRIVE AutoPilot is a major milestone for NVIDIA, and takes our high functioning self-driving capabilities into the mass market. This will be an important year for robo-taxi pilots and initial level two design wins."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Moving to the rest of the P&L and balance sheet. Q4 GAAP gross margins was 54.7% and non-GAAP was 56%, down sequentially and year-on-year, primarily due to $128 million charge for DRAM [port] and other components associated with our lower than expected Q4 revenue and current market conditions. GAAP operating expenses were $913 million and non-GAAP operating expenses were $755 million, up 25% and 24% year-on-year respectively. The GAAP EPS was $0.92, down 48% from a year earlier. Full year GAAP EPS was $6.63, up 38% from the prior year. Non-GAAP EPS was $0.80, down 53% from a year ago. Full year non-GAAP EPS was $6.64, up 35% from the prior year. We returned $1.95 billion to shareholders in the fiscal year through a combination of quarterly dividends and share repurchases. As we announced last quarter, we plan to return $3 billion to shareholders through the end of fiscal 2020 in the form of dividends and buybacks. We repurchased $700 million during the fourth quarter fiscal 2019."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"With that, let me turn to the outlook for the first quarter of fiscal 2020; we expect revenue to be $2.2 billion plus or minus 2%; GAAP and non-GAAP gross margins are expected to be 58.8% and 59% respectively plus or minus 50 basis points; GAAP and non-GAAP operating expenses are expected to be approximately $930 million and $755 million respectively. GAAP and non-GAAP OI&E are both expected to be an income of $20 million; GAAP and non-GAAP tax rates are both expected to be 10% plus or minus 1%, excluding discrete items; capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $150 million to $170 million."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"For fiscal 2020, we expect Q1 to mark the bottom as we passed the inventory correction in gaming. We expect total revenue for the year to be flat to down slightly with growth in our four end markets, compensating for the absence of crypto revenue and the excess selling for most year. We plan to grow OpEx in the high single digits this year, and we continue to invest in our focus growth areas of graphics, AI and self-driving cars. Further financial details are included in the CFO commentary, and other information is available on our IR Web site."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In closing, I'd like to highlight upcoming events for the financial community; we will be presenting at the Morgan Stanley Technology, Media and Telecom conference on February 26; and our next earnings call to discuss our financial results for the quarter of fiscal 2020 take place on May 15th."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I had two questions. First, Colette, you talked about the weakness you saw in the 2070 and the 2080 in the quarter. I guess this question is more for Jen-Hsun. Are you concerned at all about your ability to convince and incentivize gamer [indiscernible] as Colette pointed out, it's more of a timing thing. And the second question is inventory was up on the balance sheet. Colette, if you can just provide some color there and expectations going forward. Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"When we launched the 2070 and 2080, it was the first time we've ever launched a new generation where the only available SKUs were very high end. And in addition to that, the early boards that came out into the marketplace were the special edition and the over clocked versions. And the MSRP versions didn't show up for some short time after, couple of months after. And so the conditions weren't ideal, if you will. We weren't able to launch into the mainstream segment with 2060 for all the reasons that I think everybody understands now. And so I think that the situ wasn't ideal. When you take a look at our situation now, every single graphics card had the best performance at its price point and it remains so today."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And I think that right out of the box, it delivered excellent performance. It is true that everybody was hoping to see more games with RTX on day one. But it's such a new technology with ray-tracing and AI for image processing that it's only really possible to make available with new games, which is tied to the schedules of new games. And now they're starting to come out. Battlefield 5, Metro Exodus, I think that the reviews from this week are just spectacular, people are finally realizing what it is that we were talking about and that it's possible with RTX technology, the combination of applying ray-tracing and AI for us to deliver much more beautiful images without sacrificing performance and so I think people are starting to understand now the benefits of the RTX technology and we just needed some time to demonstrate it and I think the takeaway is simply this RTX is the best graphics card at every single price point without using ray tracing technology and for new games that are coming out each one of the new games that come out in the future will apply ray tracing work with developers to apply ray tracing technology; I think everybody agrees that it is the surely the next generation. And then probably one of the biggest stories that came out just last week is a Unreal Engine and Unity both of the game engines are going to incorporate RTX and ray-tracing technology in the engine itself. And so all future games in the future will be able to take advantage of that, so that's a really big news and I'm excited about that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"During this call, we may make forward-looking statements based on current expectations. These are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially. For a discussion of factors that could affect our future financial results and business, please refer to the disclosure in today's earnings release, our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q and the reports that we may file on Form 8-K into Securities and Exchange Commission."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So Toshiya to answer your second question regarding our inventory balance. Our inventory dollars at the end of Q4 rose just due to the weaker than expected finish to Q4. Inventory right now is primarily related to Turing, Volta and DGX. And we don't expect any further write-downs as we have incorporated approximately 128 million of write-downs within the current Q4."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I guess on the commentary regarding a pause in spending in data center and a handful of deals that got delayed. Can you give a little bit more color in terms of I guess what you're seeing across enterprise cloud, high performance compute, and I guess within that, how you're seeing the ramp of T4? And I guess if you can then speak to I'm sure embedded in the fiscal '20 guidance is a pretty nice ramp into the second half. What are the key drivers, key milestones that you're looking for to see that business reaccelerate higher as we go through the year?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The slowdown is broad based. We saw it across every vertical, every geography. There was just a level of cautiousness across all of the enterprise customers and the cloud service providers that we've not experienced in a while. And I think that it has to be temporary. The computing needs of Earth is, it's not certainly been satisfied with what was shipped last quarter. And so I think that the demand will return and customers will return. Our situation in data centers is dramatically better year-over-year. And if you take a look at where we are, our deep learning solution is unquestionably the best in the world. We introduced T4 with inference capability, it's the world's first universal cloud GPU and it does everything that NVIDIA does, all in one GPU and 75 watts. And so it fits into every hyperscale data center."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We're engaged with Internet Service Providers all around the world, optimizing and porting their high production models networks so that we could deploy it into production. So we now have four different new growth drivers for our data center in addition to deep learning and scientific computing; we have inference that we're actively working on; we have data analytics that\u2019s called rapids, some people call it Big Data, but data analytics and machine learning; the third is rendering. And because of the partnerships that we've developed and the excitement that people see around enterprises around the world, we've developed partnerships with large IT companies to pre-configure systems that make it easier for enterprises to be able to adopt our technology. So we have four new ways for us to grow our enterprise business. And so we're looking forward to when the pause releases and we'll get back to growing."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I just had a clarification and a question. On the clarification, gross margins. Colette, what is the normalized run rate for gross margins? As you get to your sales back to normalized levels, how should we think about the trajectory of gross margins? And will there be any impact from the balance sheet inventory? And then on the question Jen-Hsun, can you give us more reassurance that gaming is still a growth business? I understand that over the last year, there's been a lot of confusion, there's been macro issues. But if you look at the number of gamers and the mix of product that they are buying so essentially to sell through to gamers, has that been on an upward trajectory? And as part of that, when do you think we could see Turing exceed the demand you saw for Pascal? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"On gross margin, our gross margin, the largest contributor to our absolute gross margin is really just the mix of our product. The mix of our products based on our market platforms, but also the mix of our products within data center, as well as within gaming. We provided guidance for Q1, which has a good level of confidence from us and we'll see how it goes from there."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The fundamentals of gaming has not changed, there more gamers than ever. Games are better than ever. There's been a recent shift in the popularity of multiplayer competitive e-sports like games, that's good for hardware. It lowers the barrier to entry, because it's free to play with the exception of downloadable content. And so the barriers to entry is lower but you could see that the excitement around Fortnight and recently with Apex Legend, PUBG is still popular, League of Legends is still popular. And so this genre of games is both competitive, requires great hardware, it attracts a lot more players, because it's social and you want to play with your friends and it's much stickier, because it happens to be social, it happens to be a game where you have to play with a whole bunch of other people. And so I think that gaming is vibrant as ever before."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"If you take the methodology that Colette described earlier and you averaged out our underlying gaming business and you compare that to a year before, surely it grew. If you compare that -- if you compare also the rate at which our gaming notebook is growing, I think that's pretty exciting. I think last year and we had mentioned it before that our gaming notebook business grew 50% year-over-year. And just at CES the number of new notebook designs that came out with Turing, because of an invention that we created called Max-Q and because of the energy efficiency of the Turing architecture, you can now make notebooks that are really wonderful and also high performing at the same time. And so I think the dynamics are the same and gaming is going to continue to be a growth business."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. And welcome to NVIDIA's conference call for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019. With me on the call today from NVIDIA are Jen-Hsun Huang, President and Chief Executive Officer and Colette Kress, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. I'd like to remind you that our call is being webcast live on NVIDIA's Investor Relations Web site."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The webcast will be available for replay until the conference call to discuss our financial results for the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The content of today's call is NVIDIA's property. It can't be reproduced or transcribed without our prior written consent."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"All our statements are made as of today, February 14, 2019, based on information currently available to us. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such statements. During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures. You can find a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our CFO commentary, which is posted on our Web site."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"During this call, we may make forward-looking statements based on current expectations. These are subject to a number of significant risks and uncertainties, and our actual results may differ materially. For a discussion of factors that could affect our future financial results and business, please refer to the disclosure in today's earnings release, our most recent Forms 10-K and 10-Q and the reports that we may file on Form 8-K into Securities and Exchange Commission."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"All our statements are made as of today, February 14, 2019, based on information currently available to us. Except as required by law, we assume no obligation to update any such statements. During this call, we will discuss non-GAAP financial measures. You can find a reconciliation of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures in our CFO commentary, which is posted on our Web site."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"With that, I'd like to turn the call over to Colette."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And our first question comes from the line of Toshiya Hari with Goldman Sachs."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from C.J. Muse with Evercore."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your next question comes from the line and John Pitzer with Credit Suisse."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Colette, I appreciate all the data you gave us on trying to size normalized demand for gaming. What I have to ask though is if you\u2019re going through channel inventory worked out in fiscal first quarter, it seems like to hit your full year guide the expectation is for gaming revenue to accelerate well above that normalized level you talked about. What am I doing the math right? And if I am, what gives you confidence throughout the year that you can see that gaming growth off of these numbers?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I\u2019ll start and I\u2019ll let Jen-Hsun finish that question. So along the lines of Jen-Hsun's response in terms of what we do believe are the key drivers of gaming. And everything's still intact in terms of gaming, both with our Turing architecture, the growth expected with our Turing architecture, as well as the green from the notebook, we do believe will be great drivers as we head into the rest of the year. We'll have to wait and see in terms of how that plays out but that is really the underlying reason why the growth will continue."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I think your math isn't wrong. The part that you probably didn't consider is notebook. Our GeForce notebook business is quite large."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And then maybe as a follow-up just on the data center side. Clearly, you\u2019ve talked about new applications that should help grow your TAM inside of data center. I\u2019m just curious the calendar fourth quarter of last year, I think marked the first time that a competitor had some meaningful volumes in GPU in the data center. There's always talk about the [ITCM] guys wanting to do their own ASICs. What anecdotal evidence can you give us to help us get more comfortable that what\u2019s going on here is more macro and not share loss either to competition and\/or architectural differences between GPUs and ASICs?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks, Simona. As you know we lowered fourth quarter guidance for January 28th and the results are in line with our pre-announcement. Q4 revenue was $2.21 billion, down 24% from a year earlier, driven primarily by 45% year-on-year decline in gaming. Full year revenue was $11.72 billion, up 21% from the previous year."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"We don't see them in high performance computing. And so I haven't found where -- we haven't met them in high performance computing and deep learning, and in the areas that we serve. And so competitively, really we don't see it. But the bigger picture I think is this that the market segments that we serve, whether it's in deep learning, machine learning, data analytics, those segments are really quite large. And I think that it is unquestionably the future of high performance computing is going to be highly data driven, both computational methods, algorithmic methods, as well as data driven methods. And so I think the fundamental trend has not changed."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We have four new growth drivers, four new ways to grow in the data center. The first one of course is inference. We're making a lot of progress there, T4 is doing great. I think we're going to be quite successful with T4s. You just got to keep saying that has second generation Tensor Core, 75 watts and you can use it for training, you can use it for inference, you could use it for remote graphics, you could use it for high performance computing. And it fits literally into any hyperscale data center."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The second way is data analytics. This is a brand new thing for us. You must know that Big Data and using data to predict dynamics in the marketplaces is really important in retail and e-tail, and healthcare, and financial services. And there's never been accelerated approach to solve this problem for people. And because of the flexibility of CUDA and because the performance of architecture, over the course of last year, we reengineered the entire data analytics stack. So that we can accelerate, it's called RAPIDS. That work is really, really important and I hope to give you guys updates on that on a regular basis. Rendering is a brand new market for us, because of Turing, finally we can we can render photo realistic images in accelerated way. There are millions of servers in the world that are driving render farms and they're getting upgraded on a regular basis."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And then lastly, we've been successful with CSPs, because they're easy for us to reach. But the world's enterprises are far and many and they're giant industries. And our company's sales coverage doesn't allow us to reach every single healthcare company and every single insurance company and retail company. And that's where our network of partners really come in. We have great partnerships with HP. We have great partnerships with Dell and Cisco and IBM. And now we've developed relationships with the storage vendors. And the reason for that is because most of these big data problems require great deal of storage. And they all see -- they see the opportunities that we created. And we came together to create pre-configured systems that are optimized attuned. And these high performance systems that you can just bring into the company prop up and install, and we're seeing a lot of great success with that."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And so we have four different ways to grow our data center business and we're enthusiastic about it. I'm optimistic about it."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your next question comes from the line of Timothy Arcuri with UBS."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"First, I had a clarification. Colette, I just wanted to clarify what the mix is assumed for the fiscal Q1 guidance. So you assuming that data center and gaming are both flat sequentially. And then I guess my question was. Can you help us shape the revenue through the year? To get to your full year guidance, you have to add roughly, maybe $1.3 billion, $1.5 billion from where you are in fiscal Q1. How does that shape through the year? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our guidance for the next quarter is a make-up of many different types of options across our market segment. We feel confident in terms of that rollout as we provided the guidance today and we'll just have to see how that pans out. With the expectation that we will be flat or slightly down for the full year, you are correct in some case that we're going to have to build up to that over the course of the several next quarters. Likely, the second half of the year will definitely be stronger than the first half of the year, and that is our expectation at this time."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Tim, one of the things to keep in mind is that we have four growth drivers. We have four growth businesses. Our data center business is growing. It's unquestionably that our footprint is larger than ever. Our ProVis business is growing. Our workstation business now has three ways to grow. One is rendering. The second is data scientists are now a workstation customer that has never happened before. And our software stack with Turing in terms of workstation into an ideal data science workstation. And the third is finally we're able to make workstations into notebooks and they're delightfully thin, using all the same technologies that talked about for gaming notebooks and so workstations is a growth business. And then lastly, our automotive is going to be a gross growth business."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We've been investing, as you know, in self-driving cars. And this year we announced entry into level two plus, our first foot into the mainstream marketplace of autonomous vehicles. And the first design win is Volvo and we have others to announce. And so I think this is going to be a good year for self driving cars as well. So we have four growth businesses, our four core businesses are all growing."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Starting with our gaming business. Revenue of $954 million was down 45% year-on-year and down 46% sequentially, weaker than our expectations heading into the quarter. Full year revenue was up 13% to $6.25 billion. Three factors contributed to the Q4 gaming revenue decline. First, post crypto inventory of GPUs in the channel caused us to reduce shipments in order to allow excess channel inventory to sell through. We expect channel inventory to normalize in Q1 in line with one to two quarter timeline we had outlined on our previous earnings call."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your next question comes from the line of Stacy Rasgon with Bernstein Research."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"First, I wanted to get the mix, this is question Colette. You had said that mix was going to be the primary driver of your gross margins. And I know that sequentially, they're up. But if I correct for the inventory write down in Q4, the normalized gross margin this quarter was 61.7. And so you're guiding it to 59, so it's down 270 basis points sequentially on flat revenues. So do I take from that guidance if that's an indicator of the mix between the businesses is the primary driver of that gross margin degradation, or is there's something else going on that we should be aware of?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"We'll start with that first question on gross margin. You're correct mix is still the primary driver of our gross margin every single quarter. You've correctly reduced or changed our Q4 numbers to remove the overall inventory write down. So when you look at Q1, there is a mix around our products that we plan on shipping by platforms. But also within our gaming business and within our data center business, we also have different gross margins that would influence. These are our best estimates of what we have at this time and we'll see as we move through the year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So what do you think the bigger between those two, whether it's intra business mix or inter business mix, between the businesses or within the businesses. Which one of those is the biggest driver of the gross margin degradation sequentially into Q1?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I think it's more on the inter pieces. Now keep in mind our Q4 had a very low percentage of gaming as a total in terms of there and then different mix within there as we moved in the next quarter as well."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So you think it's the mix between the businesses within, like you said, inter. Is that mix between the businesses that you think is the bigger drive there?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The mix of the intra, both within the segment as well as between the segments."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"For my follow-up, Jen-Hsun you and Colette, you mentioned the data center was growing. But if I've got full year revenues for the flat to down slightly and I've got gaming revenues down a bit like you said, and I have ProVis and auto growing. It's really hard within the envelope that guidance to get data centers growing much if at all. I mean, it could even be down within that. I mean how are you thinking about the idea of data center growing within the context of the full year guidance that you're given?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Well, in the short-term, in the near-term, we have relatively limited visibility. We don't think it's going to remain this way. And with a little bit of tailwind, I think we could have a fairly good year. And so we'll just see how it turns out. This is our year guidance for now and we'll update you as we go. The fundamental dynamics doesn't change. The fact of the matter is that world needs more computing. And a lot of that computing is related to machine learning, data analytics, deep learning. It's related to the things that we're working on. And we have four new ways to grow our data center business. I think our deep learning position is as good as ever. Our scientific computing position is as good as ever. And we have four new ways to grow; we have inference, we have data analytics and machine learning, we have rendering and now we're taking that entire stack to the enterprise. And so I think we have the right strategy, we have the best platform and the utilization, the utility of it is really fantastic. And so with a little bit of tailwind, I think we could have a fairly good year and we\u2019ll just report it as we go."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your next question comes from the line of Joe Moore with Morgan Stanley."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Second, deteriorating macro economic conditions, particularly in China, impacted consumer demand for our GPUs; and third, sales of certain high end GPUs using our new Turing architecture, including the GeForce RTX 2080 and 2070 were lower than we expected for the launch of a new architecture. These products deliver a revolutionary leap in performance and innovation with real time ray-tracing and AI, but some customers may have delayed their purchase while waiting for lower price points or further demonstrations of the RTX technology and actual gains. The significant volatility in our gaming business over the last few quarters has been challenging to model."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I wanted to ask about again competition and data center. AMD on their call had talked about graphics in their data center business being, biggest server which is worth north of $100 million a quarter, which surprised me. My sense is they're doing quite a bit different applications than you guys are. But maybe just give us some context around what they're doing and how you see the competition coming from within other graphics vendors?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Our data center business is really focused on computing and we don't see anybody. Our primary competitor is CPUs. That's really the starting of it and the ending of it. And it's very clear. The vast majority of the world's data center only runs on CPUs today. But the advance of technology has slowed and it's creeping along at a few percent a year and unfortunately, that's just not good enough. And so either data centers are going to continue to increase in CapEx, or they're going to have to find a new approach. And I think people are fairly enthusiastic about university, about accelerated computing. And I think our position is really quite good. And so I would say that those are largely the positions."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"If you think about competitively comparing our GPU to a competitor's latest GPU, I think the expectation was really high and didn't turn out quite that way. I think we've established -- the Turing energy efficiency is much better. I think we've established that NVIDIA\u2019s tensor core architecture as a result allows our Volta to be four times the performance of the highest end of the alternative. And the T4 is one fourth the power at the same performance. And so the benefit of having great architectural advantage, a really rich software stack and an engineering that resulted in the energy efficiency that we've achieved generation in and generation out, I think those are those are really great advantages."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And then lastly, because of the broad reach of our architecture, an OEM or a cloud service provider can adopt to our architecture and the utility of it's going to be greater, because there's just a lot more applications. And the best way to reduce costs for any utility is to increase its utility. And I think that our position there is really strong as you could imagine."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your next question comes from the line of Matt Ramsay with Cowen."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I have just a couple of questions. The first one Jen-Hsun, it seemed like the Turing platform is delivering some amazing results but as you talked about relying on some new software features to do it. I wonder if you might talk about any steps you're taking in the roadmap to really upgrade performance for the installed base of games, and given the time that it might take for some of those software features to rollout? And then secondly, you noted in the pre-announcement something about the write down having to do with DRAM. I mean obviously that commodity pricing has been volatile. Colette, is there anything you can talk about how big of an effect that might have on the business and on pricing overall? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"First of all, the Turing architecture is the highest performing architecture at every single price point. And it's a big jump from our last generation in every single way. Without ray-tracing the Turing architecture is the first GPU to do concurrent floating point and image your operations at the same time. The instruction per clock of the Turing processor is so much better than our last generation, so much better than what's available in the marketplace."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The cash architecture is a big improvement, and you can just see it in all of the existing games. So just measure the existing games without touching anything, Turing gives you a big boost and that's before we talked about ray-tracing. And we've already spoken about ray-tracing earlier Matt and we know that every single game that are coming out, we're working with the developers to incorporate RTX technology and a very, very big deal, both Epic with Unreal Engine and Unity Engine are going to incorporate ray-tracing. It is very, very clear that the next generation of computer graphics is ray-tracing. And all of the work that we've done with RTX to move the industry forward is well worth it. But remember that's just the graphics part of Turing."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Turing comes with its several new opportunities for growth for us; the first is of course, advancing games; advancing games for notebooks; advancing computer graphics photorealistic rendering for film; all the work that we've done with Tensor Core that we just talked about. It's our second generation Tensor Core making it great for training, as well as inference, a big leap for us for inference. And then lastly all the work that we're doing for data analytics and machine learning will take advantage of all of the capabilities of Turing. And so Turing is a big deal for us. And that's one of the reasons why last year was so busy for us. As we put Turing into workstations, into data centers, into clouds, into rendering, into video games. And so Turing is really a gigantic leap for us architecturally, we're really excited by it. I think the turbulent Q4 overshadowed all of it but in the final analysis, I think Turing was a home run for us."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And to also answer your question regarding DRAM prices, yes, they have definitely been volatile over the historical period. It is great to see them coming down in price. Over the long-term, yes, that is beneficial to us from a gross margin perspective. So as we look out to the quarters or later, we will probably be able to incorporate that into our gross margin."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Crypto mining demand and its after effects have distorted the quarter-to-quarter trends in the gaming business and obscured its underlying trend line. Let me try to give you some visibility into what we believe the long live business looks like. As you know, our gaming business consists of desktop gaming, notebook gaming and gaming console products. To get a sense of the underlying run rate in our gaming business last year, it is helpful to look at desktop gaming revenue across the period that doesn't include crypto demand."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your next question comes from the line of Aaron Rakers with Wells Fargo."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Building on the discussion around the Turing platform and particularly to the gaming market, I'm curious you mentioned in your prepared comments pricing of these new solutions is a bit of an inhibitor. Has the company invoked any changes in your pricing strategy around Turing? And then also I'd be interested is, can you help us frame how important China is to the gaming segment and whether or not you're assuming that the China market rebounds in your annual assumptions?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"First of all, on the pricing part, the biggest inhibitor was that we couldn't launch our mid range segment. The ability to launch 2060 was a big inhibitor for us, but we did so at CES. The launch is a great success. The reviews are fantastic. People love 2060, the price point is great. And so now we have great stack from the mid range all the way to enthusiasts. The other part, which because it turned out better is at the time of the launch, there were so many special additions and there were so many over clocked versions that the price point appeared high. But now we have MSRP pricing for all of our segments. And so that's terrific. China's an important market and it's an important gaming market. And I very confidence this is going to rebound."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your next question comes from the line of Mark Lipacis with Jefferies."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Could you just -- a clarification. Could you repeat what you said you thought the OpEx would grow in this fiscal year? And what is the focus of that investment, to what extent this is R&D versus SG&A? And then maybe one layer deeper, where's the focus of the higher OpEx? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I'll start off to repeat what we indicated in our transcript. We plan to increase OpEx in the high single-digits over where we finished in terms of fiscal year '19. That is related to our opportunities that we see in front of us, gaming, AI as well as self driving cars. Our focus in terms of investments, we are a very R&D heavy significant company. But there are investments across the board, both in R&D as well as what we need in terms of go to market strategies to obtain these high markets in front of us."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your next question comes from the line Mitch Steves with RBC Capital Markets."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"So I don't want to poke too many holes on the memory side and the downturn in gaming due to crypto inventory. But if I think about the gross margin profile, you guys almost reached 65%. So if I look out let's call it a year or even 18 months to make it more of a long-term target. Is there any reason why you guys can't get back up to the mid 6s level?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"On your gross margin question, yes we still have drivers within the mix of our products that allow us to grow our gross margin over the long-term absolutely. And there is definitely a goal for us to continue doing that. So we will focus in terms of both the cost components of what we do, but also moving the entire portfolio to the higher value added platforms that we sell. So over the long term, absolutely all of those things are still in place and intact that we can do. And we'll look quarter-to-quarter to give the best guidance that we can to help you see that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your next question comes from the line of Blayne Curtis with Barclays."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Let's look at the four quarters starting from Q2 of last year to the current quarter or Q1 of this year. In Q2 and Q3 of last year with the benefit of hindsight, we shipped a higher amount of desktop gaming products relative to where end demand turned out to be. To allow the channel to work down that excess channel inventory, we shipped a lower amount relative to end demand in Q4 and will do so again in Q1. Therefore, exiting Q1, we expect channel inventories to be at normal levels. On average, our desktop gaming revenue across these four quarters is about $900 million. We believe this represents the normalized level of desktop gaming for this period. Notebook gaming and gaming consoles have averaged close to $500 million per quarter over these same four quarters, such in total we believe are normalized [indiscernible] gaming business revenue run rate is approximately $1.4 billion."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Obviously, a pause in data center particularly with the hyperscale, it's pretty well documented. And just curious your perspective particularly being AI still growth area versus more run rate being memory and CPUs. Can you give us any perspective as to how widespread is maybe number of customers or geographic perspective, and just curious how AI is affected with this greater slow down? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Blayne, the hyperscalars, their pause is probably the most dramatic. We still see a lot of activity in enterprise. It's just a much smaller base for us but we expect it to be a much larger base in the future. And the reason for that is because most of the enterprises today don't use deep learning, they use an approach called machine learning. They might use things like decision trees, or graph analytics, or regressions, or clustering, or things like that, algorithms like that. And they run data analytics applications for business intelligence on large amounts of data, and they might be running it on top of a spark stack that was created out of Berkeley and open source from Databricks. And so there's -- if you recognize some of these things, that's what healthcare companies do and financial services companies do, and retail companies do. They use it for fraud detection, predicting inventory, trying to make the best matches between riders and drivers, and try to predict which route to take to deliver food dinner to you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And so those applications most of the developers today use machine learning and large big data analytics. So we invested in the stack called RAPIDS and built our architecture, called T4. And we're in the process of partnering with large IT companies to take the stack and the solution out to the world's enterprise. And so, I expect enterprise to be a fairly exciting growth opportunity for us. Meanwhile, the CSPs, their pause will end. The amount of computation they do is increasing. More and more of them are using deep learning. And we have inference opportunity with the work that we do with T4 and TensorRT. And so we've got a lot of exciting opportunities to go."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your next question comes from the line of Pierre Ferragu with New Street Research."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"A question for Colette, I'm trying to figure out how your position with cloud data centers evolved last year in financial year 2019. So if I look at the cloud CapEx, we are up about 70%. If I look at the CPU going into the cloud, according to Intel, was up about 60%. So I was wondering how much you guys have been increasing revenues within your cloud business, did you grow faster than CPUs? Did you go faster than overall CapEx? And then I have a follow up on 2020."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Let me start out on that piece. As we talked about earlier on the call, our hyperscales and our hyperscales many of them are also cloud providers did start to slowdown in terms of their purchasing in latter half of the year. But the overall growth rate as you can see from our data center business grew more than 50% for the full year. Now even without strong growth, we are still a very small percentage of overall CapEx that we see in the cloud providers or the overall hyperscales. We are likely one of their top priorities of areas of where they need to grow in terms of in their data center as they focus on AI, as they focus on the cloud businesses, and the importance of that compute is necessary. But we're still a very, very small percentage of it. So slowdown in the second half of the year, full year growth, phenomenal growth of 50% and we track with that for this year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"But this 50% growth, that's all your overall data center business. Is that's what like specifically your cloud hyperscale business grew well or did that grew even faster with that?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, depending on the quarter, we will have a mix of what is hyperscale growth or what is cloud in this. And again in the fourth quarter that was not a growth opportunity for us but earlier in the year definitely it was."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And then quickly maybe Jen-Hsun on 2020, so you seem to be very cautious on the data center outlook. When we listen to players like Google and Facebook and others, they all seem to be seemed like very tuned to grow their overall spending this year. And when we listen to other providers around you, they all seem to be -- they all demonstrate a bit of a confidence that in the second half, spending should resume. Is that just because I've been more optimistic than you? Do they say something you don't see? What do you hear from your clients about the second half?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Well, we're enthusiastic about the second half. We're enthusiastic about our position. And we're enthusiastic about the solution we offer. And Pure, as you know, we've also expanded our application and our market reach. We guided I think probably the biggest takeaway is we guided flat to slightly down for the whole year, for the whole number. We do have four growth drivers. And maybe the best way to think about it is we should just wait and see how it goes. I think we concerned with where we are. I feel pretty good about our guidance, but I feel even better about our strategic position. And so I look forward to working through the year with you guys."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Could you catch us up on your latest thinking on the NMA? And maybe tie that to your view on moderating demand, I guess, if -- demand would obviously fluctuate a bit if you chose to launch the aircraft with the pile of launch customers, I would imagine. So maybe just juxtapose those two different points."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We continue to ramp up the activities for the T-X and MQ-25 programs. These wins are the culmination of years of unwavering focus, improving our technology and derisking the programs. We have developed and flight tested two all-new production ready T-X jets with 76 flight tests having been completed to date. We've already seeing strong interest as well for the T-X from outside of the U.S. On MQ-25, we have demonstrated deck handling and engine trials. Our MQ-25 prototype aircraft is currently in ground test and expected to undergo first flight this year."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Yes, it was sort of just how the conversation is going through your customers preliminarily at least around this plane being used as sort of an enabler of opening up new point-to-point markets versus replacement relative to say really I was thinking about 787 specifically, but just broader in general. Thanks."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, we have talked extensively with customers here, more than 60 customers and very consistent feedback. And we do see several different market segments and potential applications for this airplane. We do see a market need here that's in between today's narrow-body and wide-body families. It\u2019s a market area that really cannot be addressed by modifying those existing platforms and aircraft. Some of that is medium haul -- medium-range segments that today are being served by -- I'll say inefficient use of wide-body. And we see that as an opportunity for airline customers to gain efficiency. But a good portion of this is also creation of new medium-range route structures. And just as we saw with introduction to 787 where we saw roughly already 200 new city pairs emerged because of the capability of the airplane in the medium-range marketplace, are again 4,000 to 5,000 mile kind of range. We see an opportunity for significant regional city pair growth from this airplane. And that's another area where we are gaining customer feedback. So there are multiple segments of applicability, significant customer interest. The key here is for us to build a business case that\u2019s going to create value for our customers as well as value for our company and our shareholders. And that's the work we still need to finish."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Next we go to Ron Epstein with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Just a question, and maybe a follow-up. How do we think about the 900 airplanes like where do you have to transition 73 and 78 to get to 900. That\u2019s a lot of airplanes. Total make 75 a month right on average?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, Ron, you've made the right calculation here. So as I mentioned, we\u2019re well into the 14 a month rate step on 787, and we expect to complete that transition in the second quarter. So that's a moving forward very briskly and on track. On the 737, we've already moved parts of the supply chain to 57 a month. But we still have some work to do on some elements of the supply chain in particular with engines and CFM. And we\u2019re not going to make that full transition of 57 a month. And so we\u2019re very confident that were ready. And it's important that we do that in a very disciplined way. So you can back into the number mathematically with about 900 deliveries for the year note that 900 roughly deliveries for the year also includes the military derivative. So P8 tankers are all included in that number, just for clarity."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And the maybe one follow-on on the NMA question. In the business case you may think about NMA, how do you think about it and the potential relationship it could have with the future family of narrow-bodies?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"It's one of the parameters that we think through anytime we're thinking about investments for the future make us we realize earlier. We fundamentally have changed our R&D investment strategy for the companies that it's feathered over the long term where we can sequence development programs so that we gain the benefits of continuous development and lessons learned program-to-program rather than stacking multiple development programs on top of each other. And that\u2019s the way we\u2019re thinking through NMA as well. So not only the development programs or that particular airplane in the market it will serve, but also how do we sequence it, how do we leverage learning\u2019s from 777X, how do we leverage what we're learning from things like T-X and roll that into NMA, and then how could we use an NMA investment to think about leverage and creating the production system for even more distinct future whether that be some future narrow-body airplane or other alternatives that we might invest in. But think of this is a continuum of R&D effort. This again is all key to creating a sustained growth business where top and bottom line of both long-term sustained growth levels. That is our approach here. And so we\u2019re thinking about NMA in that multi-program context."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Got you. Can I ask one more at the tail end here?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I think, we're \u2026"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Can I ask just sort of quick one? Just for Greg. Greg, when we think about the 727 engine versus the MAX, just for modeling purposes it's going to review 90% MAXs this year. How do we think about the margin profile of one variant versus the other?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Now turning to Global Services. BGS reported revenue of $17 billion, representing 17% growth year-on-year. Business operations begin in July of 2017. BGS growth is consistently outpaced the average for the services market. BGS continues to win new business, highlighting the value we bring to our broad range of commercial and government customers and the strength of our One Boeing offerings. BGS booked new orders totaling approximately $18 billion in 2018. The awards included support services and sustained the contracts for military customers globally such as the recent C-17, F-18 and F-22 contracts with U.S. Navy and Air Force and F-15 for Qatar"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Well, it's still kind of early introduction, right. So you take that into account, but net-net, you\u2019re in a similar margin profile as you're on NG. It's really just more around on timing from a unit perspective. It's how they are feathered in. So I wouldn't think of it any different. It's really just again more timing."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. So operator, we have time for just one more analyst question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"That will be from Peter Arment with Baird. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hey, Dennis, just maybe an easier one on book to bill expectations in 2019, I guess, specifically around 737 MAX orders, you mentioned you had 13 new customers in 2018 and you had, really I think 5,000 aircraft since the launch. So that\u2019s close to 68%, I think, of the covers of NGs. Just how you are thinking about the order momentum with that program? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Peter, we continue to see strong order momentum there I think just another sign of it this week earlier you saw ANA's announcement about their intent to buy the MAX. And that\u2019s another addition to fleet there. So we see continued momentum on the MAX sales front. That airplane is creating value in the market for our customers. And we are oversold against our production profile. We talked earlier about ramping up to 57 a month. We are oversold against that profile. We're filling skyline slots way out in 2023. We continue to see upward market pressure overall on the production rate as result. And we think the demand for that airplane continues to be sustained. So while we have great orders volume and momentum this year. And I mentioned we might see some moderation in that demand this coming year. We still expect book to bill to be in that one-to-one range and there is always timing variability. But in terms of the MAX, the demand signals in the marketplace continue to be very strong."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Ladies and gentlemen, that completes the analyst question-and-answer session. [Operator Instructions] I will now return you to The Boeing Company for introductory remarks by Ms. Anne Toulouse, Interim Vice President of Communication. Ms. Toulouse. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you. We will continue the call with media questions for Dennis and Greg. And if you have additional queries following this session, please call our Media Relations team at (312) 544-2002. Operator, we are ready for that first question. And in interest of time, we ask that you limit everyone to one question please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And first to the line of Andrew Tangel with Wall Street Journal. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, Andrew, let me touch on the China question first. We continue to see strong demand in China overall in terms of market dynamics. As I said earlier, over the years, we see a world that needs about 43,000 new Commercial Airplanes. We remain very confident in that outlook and about 7,700 of those 43,000 are in China. And that remains solid traffic patterns in China continue to progress. We're seeing passenger growth there that exceeds the overall market growth around the world and we also see passenger traffic growth there continuing to exceed GDP growth. So those market fundamentals remain strongly in place. In terms of our orders volume in China that's typically pace by timing of their five-year planning. So it tends to come in waves. So that\u2019s why we, again, as we look to the future we expect to see some timing adjustments on orders, but overall volume over the long-term remains very strong. And that really applies to my broader comment to about moderation of orders in 2019. As we look to the long-term the market fundamentals are very strong. And we see long-term volume of orders continuing to grow and adding backlog. It just gets into a question of local timing quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year as our customers meet their fleet needs. So nothing here that I would say is a macro trend or substantial change. We just see fundamental aerospace growth and air traffic growth as a long-term sustainable trend. And with the backlog of about 5,900 aircraft to roughly seven years of production, that gives us the ability to whether any local variations and maintain a long-term view in terms of sustain growth."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question is from Julie Johnsson with Bloomberg. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In addition to the strong momentum in its parts and supply chain business, BGS continues to expand its market-leading digital solution portfolio and customer base. In the fourth quarter, more than 5,300 commercial and military aircraft were monitored in flight by airplane health management, a cloud-based real-time health monitoring solution. Adding to the list of our digital analytics customers Shenzhen airlines recently signed up for crew pairing and rostering services. Shenzhen will be the first airline in China to use Boeing analytics power crew management solutions bringing the most advanced data analytics capabilities to the airlines, allow them to focus on their core business is serving their customers while improving efficiency and cost."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"If I just wanted to make sure that I understood what your -- that point you're making on China, Dennis, do you potentially see a low in orders this year because the next five year plan is looming in the headlights. And then totally unrelated question and apologies for that, but where does CFM stand on its catch-up plan for the LEAP? How unusual is it for Boeing to embed your people in their supply chain?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"ulie, on your first question regarding China that was exactly my point earlier, given the five-year planning cycle there, we are having ongoing discussions with our customers in China, the Chinese government, the U.S. government. This also factors into the trade dialogue between the U.S. and China. But these are all factors that we\u2019re very much engaged in. Again, we expect China as a long-term growth market for us. But exactly how those efforts play out over the next quarter or two is still an open question as we proceed with trade discussions. I can tell you having been intimately involved in the discussions and engagement with the governments both U.S. and China, we see our progress on that front and we see convergence. And we also see that there is clearly a mutual benefit of having a healthy aerospace industry for both the U.S. and China. China needs the airplanes for growth to fuel their economy and to meet their passenger growth and cargo growth needs. And here in the U.S. our aerospace business is a tremendous U.S. jobs generator, manufacturing jobs. We hired 34,000 people last year. And we, as an aerospace industry here in the U,.S., create about $80 billion a year trade surplus for the country. So there is mutual interest, and I hope the aerospace business. We expect that to lead the reproductive pre-discussions between the U.S. and China or at least be part of that. And then that will factor into the ultimate orders volume and timing with China. That's just a little additional context there. Regarding your CFM question, it's not unusual for us to have Boeing personnel at our suppliers sites and down into their supply chain. That's a very typical process that we would have. But I will say again as it goes 737, one of the supply chain health issues that we're spending a lot of time on right now is engines and our work with CFL. And so we\u2019re deploying additional resources with them into their factories and supply chain. Now we do expect to recover. We\u2019re seeing signs of recovery. But we still have work to go. And being deeply engaged in our supply chain as part of how we do business."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question is from Sylvia Pfeifer with Financial Times. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I had the China question which was one of my main ones. Can I just ask you about Brexit then? I know you\u2019re in a very different position to Airbus here in the UK. But I just wondered whether you see any risk to your operations in the UK in the event of hard Brexit just a few weeks ago before the 29th of March."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Silvia, we're continuing to seek a very close eye on that as you might guess. And again, we\u2019re very involved in the discussion. That's -- we\u2019re committed to our operations in the UK. We've ramped up significantly over the last many years roughly doubling the size of our operations, roughly tripling the size of our supply chain in the UK and those are long-term sustained investments. And we don't expect that to change based on the outcome of Brexit. That's said we are keeping a very close eye on it and making sure it doesn't impact our operations. I think just as further sign of our commitment in the UK. You will note that during the last year, we opened our new operation in Sheffield where we\u2019re doing some advanced manufacturing work. It's also helping us to build out our actuation vertical capably, so just another example of our long-term commitment to the UK and the investments that we will continue to make."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. Operator, we have time for one last question from the media."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And that will be from Dominic Gates with the Seattle Times. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"As I\u2019m going back to the 737 MAX situation and CFM, in December with the delivery of 69 airplanes, it did seem like you have almost fully recovered. Has there been some further setback? And is the need to send people to CFM, is that because there's a problem with the ramp-up of the engine production? Or is there some configuration change that\u2019s become necessary? Can you just tell us a bit more? Also what's the timeline you expect to be back to normal, let's say?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, Dominic, first of all, as you saw in our December deliveries, as you alluded to, we did see some recovery across our supply chain, including engine supply and that enabled us to drive those December deliveries of 69 aircraft. But we were not yet fully recovered at that point, so we've continued to work supply chain recovery and there still work to go there. There is nothing here that I would say is an issue associated with having to change configuration or make that kind of alteration to the engine. This is really about just ramping up production and doing it efficiently and being able to get a liner profile engine deliveries that matches up with our factory production rate for the airplane and synchronizing those production systems. That's really what we're focused on. We still have work to go to get CFM to be supporting our 52 a month production rate and having those systems synchronized and then even more work to go yet to get them ramped up to 57 a month. And that's really what we're focused on. This is about production system ramp-up and synchronization. And by us getting deeper into the factories, it's going to give us better insight on long lead items. And, frankly though, I think help us do best practice sharing between Boeing and CFM, which is part of how we operate, right. That will make us better and it will make CFM better. And that work that we plan to be very focused on in the first quarter and timing of that is reflected in our overall delivery guidance for the year. So you can see that factored in. But we're going to be very, very disciplined about insuring supply chain health before we fully move to the 57 a month production rate."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. That concludes our earnings call. Again, for members of the media, if you have further questions, please call our team at (312) 544-2002. Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In the fourth quarter, we also completed acquisition of KLX, a major global provider of aviation parts and services. Boosting our supply chain capability enables us to better serve our customers while profitably and purposefully growing our business. Our integration activities continue to progress well. We've retained the top KLX talent and are on track to achieve or exceed our business case synergy value."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Additionally, last year we started operations for our airplane seat joint venture with Adient, and an Auxiliary Power Units joint venture with Safran. These partnerships support Boeing's vertical integration strategy to strengthen in-house capabilities and depth in key areas to offer better products that deliver greater value to our customers, grow our services business and generate greater life cycle value. We've also made progress in our strategic partnership with Embraer. We've recently received approval by the Government of Brazil and signed definitive agreements with Embraer. The Embraer shareholder votes scheduled for February 26 is the next major milestone. Over the coming months we'll continue to work with Embraer global regulators and other stakeholders to complete the transaction and create the most important strategic partnership in the aerospace industry. Assuming the approvals are received in a timely manner, we expect to close the transaction by the end of this year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In summary, we delivered another year of strong operating performance, captured noteworthy additions to our large and diverse backlog, returned significant cash to our shareholders, invested in our people and in our business to drive innovation and excellence and complemented our organic growth with planned strategic inorganic investments. With that, let\u2019s turn to the business environment on Slide 3."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We continue to see healthy global demand for our offerings in commercial, defense, space and services. These are sizable sectors that are growing and backed by strong fundamentals with a combined market opportunity of $8.1 trillion over the next 10 years. I would note that as a global company with customers in 150 countries, we're always mindful of the potential impact of geopolitical and macroeconomic forces. We continue to track a host of near-term issues and mitigate potential risks as appropriate. We value and maintain strong relationships with our customers, suppliers and other stakeholders around the world, reinforcing the mutual economic benefits of the strong and prosperous aerospace industry."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In commercial aviation, global passenger traffic continues to grow faster than GDP and long-term trends. The 2018 passenger traffic grew 6.6% through November, representing the ninth straight year of above trend growth. We believe the changing nature of travel with more connected city pairs and the rising middle-class has fundamentally expanded traffic patterns and supports sustained growth. At the same time, airlines are maintaining capacity discipline, keeping supply demand imbalance as industry profitability remains near historic highs. Meanwhile, Air Cargo continued its solid momentum in 2018 with traffic increasing nearly 4% through November."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our customers continue to recognize the superior value proposition of our more fuel efficient airplanes as reflected in the strong intake of new orders we saw last year. For 2019, we expect to see our new order intake to be moderated but still at a healthy pace."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our sales expectations are built on the diverse demand that we\u2019re seeing around the world and across airline business models. There also is more balance between airplanes purchase for fleet growth and replacement leading to more stable purchasing patterns. We believe the evolution in these key market dynamics in aggregate continues to drive less cyclicality for our industry. Over the long term, we remain highly confident in our outlook, which forecasts demand for nearly 43,000 new airplanes over the next 20 years, which will help double the size of the global fleet. These long-term demand fundamentals combined with healthy market conditions and a robust backlog provides a solid foundation for our planned production rates.Now turning to our product segments, starting with the narrow-body, our current production rate of 52 per month and planned increase to 57 this year is based on our backlog of more than 4,700 aircraft and a production skyline that is sold out into early next decade. The 737 program added 13 new customers during the year and the Max family surpassed 5,000 net orders in December. We continue to assess the market upward pressure on the 737 production rate."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you, and good morning. Welcome to Boeing's fourth quarter 2018 earnings call. I'm Maurita Sutedja. And with me today is Dennis Muilenburg, Boeing's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer; and Greg Smith, Boeing's Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Enterprise Performance & Strategy. After management comment, we will take your questions. In fairness to others on the call, we ask that you please limit yourself to one question. As always we have provided detailed financial information in our press release issued earlier today. And as a reminder you can follow today\u2019s broadcast and slide presentation through our website at boeing.com."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"As with all rate increases, we continue to assess the supply chain readiness as well as the market demand in an integrated manner as part of our disciplined decision-making. In wide-body segment, we have seen steady orders for the 787 and the 777, and have high confidence in a meaningful increase in wide-body replacement demand early next decade. The current generation 777 continued its steady sales momentum with 51 net orders. The 777 program is captured more than 2,000 orders since its launch. These additional orders brought the backlog to 100 aircraft and provide further support for the 777 bridge."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Turning to the 777X, we've recently launched our Boeing Business Jet variance, the longest range business jets ever that can connect virtually any two cities in the world. We have a strong foundation of 340 orders and commitments for the 777X, which support our plan for ramping up production and delivery of this new aircraft. We\u2019re focused on further bolstering the 777X skyline."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The combined 777, 777X production rate is slight for month. As we transition to 777X, we continue to expect the delivery rate to be approximately 3.5 aircraft per month in 2019, and we expect the delivery rate to increase slightly in 2020 as we continue to assess 777 demand as well as 777X timing."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The 787 Dreamliner extended its status as the fastest selling twin-aisle jet in history with 109 net orders last year or more than 1,400, since the program launched. Highlights include Hawaiian Airlines and Turkish Airlines becoming new 787 customers. American Airlines and United Airlines added to the growing list of repeat 787 Dreamliner customers, highlighting the strong market preference for the 787 family and its superior value. With more than 600 in the backlog, our plant increased Dreamliner production to 14 airplanes per month this year is well supported."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Turning to our 747 and 767 programs. With our unmatched freighter product lines, we are well-positioned to capture the increased cargo demand. We added four new orders for the 747 in the fourth quarter. And as previously announced, we planned to increase 767 production rate from 2.5 per month to 3 per month in 2020. As Defense, Space & Security, we continue to see solid demand for our major platforms and programs. The BGS portfolio is well-positioned with the mature world-class set of platforms to address current needs and innovative capable and affordable new franchise programs to build the future. We expect to continue to see broad support for our products in the Pentagon and Congress."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Fiscal year 2019 defense bills authorized a fourth multiyear procurement for the F-18 fighter, added funding for additional rotorcraft, funded the requested quantities, our key programs across our fixed wing and commercial derivative aircraft portfolios and supported our missile, space and satellite products. While the fiscal year 2019 NASA appropriations have not yet been enacted, Congress is also demonstrated robust support for our key space exploration programs. Demand from outside the U.S. for our defense and space offerings also remains high, in particular for rotorcraft, commercial derivatives, fighters and satellites. Our investment in future growth and new sales continues in areas that are priorities for our customers. We will continue to leverage capabilities and technologies from across our enterprise to win important opportunities such as the ground based strategic deterrent."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Turning to the services sector. We see the $2.8 trillion services market over the next 10 years as a significant growth opportunity for our company. BGS provides agile, cost competitive services to our customers worldwide. We aim to continue to growing faster than the average services market growth rate of 3.5% as we further expand our broad portfolio of services offerings and continue to gain market share."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"BGS' 17% year-over-year revenue increase solidifies our confidence and the growth opportunities and our team's ability to capture it. Strong orders of $18 billion as the year reflect our customers' recognition of our value proposition and helping them optimize the performance to their fleets and reduce operational cost through the lifecycle. Our focus for BGS remains on optimizing the businesses and expanding our portfolio offerings through organic growth investments such as strengthening our vertical capabilities, complemented by strategic acquisitions and partnerships positioned BGS for sustained long-term and profitable growth. Our expertise, the global reach of our business and our strong customer partnerships have us well-positioned to compete and win in this important sector."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In summary, with growing markets and opportunities ahead, our team remained intensely focused on growth, innovation and accelerating productivity improvements to fuel our investments in the future. For example, the first test flight of our autonomous passenger air vehicle prototype last week chose our efforts to continue to lead with the safe, innovative and responsible approach to new mobility solutions. Our One Boeing strategies and offerings across our three businesses are key differentiators that helps demand our position as the world's leading aerospace company."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"With that, Greg, over to you for the financial results."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Before we begin, I need to remind you that any projections and goals we include in our discussion this morning are likely to involve risks, which is detailed in our news release in our various SEC filings and in the forward-looking statement disclaimer at the end of this rough presentation. In addition, we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook. Now, I will turn the call over to Dennis Muilenburg"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Thanks, Dennis. Good morning, everybody. Let's turn to Slide 4, and we'll discuss our full year results. We booked record revenue of $101 billion in 2018, exceeding $100 billion for the first time in the company's history. This is driven by record commercial aircraft deliveries, higher Defense, Space & Security volume and continued growth in services. Core earnings-per-share totaled $16.01 for the full year, and other record reflecting higher volume, improved mix and solid execution across the company. Operating cash for the year was also a record at $15.3 billion. The robust cash generation was largely driven by higher volume and strong operating performance across the businesses. Let\u2019s move now to our quarterly results on Slide 5."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Fourth quarter revenue increased to $28.3 billion driven by growth in all three businesses while core earnings per share grew to $5.48, driven by higher volume and strong operating performance across the portfolio, which outweighed the favorable tax reform impact in the fourth quarter of last year"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Now let's discuss Commercial Airplanes on Slide 6. Our Commercial Airplane business revenue of $17.3 billion during the quarter reflected higher deliveries and favorable mix. BCA operating margins increased to 15.6%, driven by higher 737 volume and strong operating performance on production programs, including higher 787 margins. BCA captured $16 billion of net orders during the fourth quarter and the backlog remains strong at $412 billion with nearly 5,900 aircraft, representing approximately seven years of production. We delivered 238 aircraft in the quarter, including 173 737s. And as we discussed, the 737 deliveries for the year were back loaded due to production and supply chain recovery efforts."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Let's now turn to Defense, Space & Security results on Slide 7. Fourth quarter revenue increased to $6.1 billion driven by higher volume across the BDS portfolio, including F-18 satellites and weapons. BDS margins increased to 10.9%, reflecting solid performance and favorable mix. BDS added $5 billion of new orders in the quarter, bringing its backlog to $57 billion with 30% of that from outside of the United States"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Turning now to Global Services results on Slide 8. In the fourth quarter, Global Services revenue increased $4.9 billion, reflecting higher volume predominantly driven by increased sales of parts and supply chain solutions. Year-over-year growth of 17% for the full year, which was predominantly driven by organically more than meets our objective to outpace the average annual service market growth rate of 3.5%."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"BGS operating margins were strong at 15%, reflecting the mix of products and services in the quarter, as well as improved performance partially offset by higher period costs for investments focused on expanding our portfolio of offerings going forward. During the quarter, BGS won key contract awards worth approximately $6 billion bringing our backlog to $21 billion. These wins underscore the strength of our One Boeing offerings to our customers."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Let's turn now to cash flow on Slide 9. Operating cash flow for the quarter and full year was strong at $2.9 billion and $15.3 billion respectively. These results were driven by planned higher volume strong operating performance across the business and some timing of receipt and expenditures. We remain focused and on track with our balanced cash deployment strategy. In 2018, we invested $5 billion in R&D and CapEx, repurchased $9 billion of Boeing stock and paid $3.9 billion in dividends reflecting a 20% increase in dividend per-share from last year. And we also completed the KLX acquisition in the fourth quarter."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The strength of our business and our confidence in the sustainable long-term outlook are powering investments in productivity, innovation and growth, while delivering on our commitments to return cash to shareholders. As Dennis mentioned earlier in December, last year we reinforced our commitment to returning value to shareholders as our Board of Directors authorized a new $20 billion share repurchase program in a 20% increase in our quarterly dividend."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Over the last five years, we've repurchased more than 205 million shares and increased our dividend by more than 180%. At the same time, we've invested nearly $35 billion in key strategic areas of our business to support long-term growth sustainability for Boeing, for our customers and our shareholders. We remain committed to continue to execute on our balanced cash deployment strategy going forward."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Let's move now to cash and debt balances on Slide 10. We ended the quarter with $8.6 billion of cash and marketable securities, $13.8 billion of debt and stable credit ratings. Our cash and debt position reflects the acquisition of KLX in the fourth quarter. And our balance sheet position continues to provide us with flexibility to invest in innovation and profitable growth opportunities while again returning value back to shareholders."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In addition, we refer you to our earnings release and presentation for disclosures and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures that we use when discussing our results and outlook.Now, I will turn the call over to Dennis Muilenburg."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Turning now Slide 11 to discuss our outlook for 2019. Building on the strong performance in 2018, our guidance for 2019 reflects higher volume, improved core operating performance, additional productivity capture and continued focus and effort to drive growing cash flows."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Total company revenue for 2019 is forecasted to be between $109.5 and $111.5 billion, largely reflecting higher plan 737 and 787 production rate and growth in both services as well as defense, space, and security. Core earnings per share guidance for 2019 is set to be between $19.90 and $20.10 per share on higher volume, favorable mix and improved productivity and affordability."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operating cash flow for 2019 is forecasted to increase by $2 billion to be between $17 billion and $17.5 billion. This is largely driven by improved 787 cash generation in 2019, higher overall volume, including 737 and 787 production and improving tanker cash profile that partially offset by increased plan 777X inventory related test aircraft and early build units and higher cash taxes, primarily due to improved unit profitability, as well as higher planned R&D spending in 2019."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Capital spending is forecasted to be approximately $2.3 billion and includes the timing shift some expenditures that were expected in 2018. Our investments align with our long-term growth and productivity strategy that supports for programs, innovation, productivity verticals and services."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And before we discuss the business unit guidance I would like to highlight the beginning of in January 2019, we are changing the realignment of our military derivative aircraft contracts, such as the KC-46 tanker P-8 Poseidon VC-25 Air Force 1 between BCA and BDS. This changes to better reflect the contractual relationship with the end customers as BDS calls the prime contract."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"This accounting realignment does not change how BCA and BDS execute together on these contracts. Also it does not expect total Boeing sales, earnings assets, cash flow assets or liabilities. Our 2019 segment guidance includes the impact this realignment, and beginning in January 2019, revenue and costs associated with military derivative aircraft that was previously reported in both BCA and BDS will now be 100% reported in the BDS segment. And for comparison purposes as part of the earnings release, we provided restated 2018 and 2017 financial information incorporating this accounting change."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Now for 2019, commercial airplane revenue guidance it is set to be between 64.5 and 65.5 billion. And as we've discussed this is largely driven on the higher deliveries of 737 and 787 program, partially offset by the impact of the military derivative aircraft realignment the BDS."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The ramp up on the 737 Max production continues and we expect 737 Max to account for approximately 90% of total 737 deliveries in 2019. In all BCA's expect to deliver between 895 and 905 airplanes for the full year. Incorporating this delivery guidance assumptions, our plan 737 and 787 production rate increases and the inter company deliveries of the military aircraft from BCA to BDS."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Commercial Airplane operating margin guidance is set to be between 14.5% and 15% on higher 737 volume and improved operating performance, which more than offset the higher period costs including R&D. The margin guidance also reflects all plan production rate increases."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Defense, Space & Security revenue guidance for 2019 is between $26.5 billion and $27.5 billion, reflecting the higher volume in our new programs, strong backlog on core programs and the impact of the military derivative aircraft realignment from BCA."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you, Maurita, and good morning. Let me begin today with a brief overview of our 2018 operating performance, followed by an update on the business environment and our expectations going forward. After that, Greg will walk you through the details of our financial results and outlook. With that, let's move to Slide 2.Thanks to the dedicated efforts of our teams across the company. Boeing delivered strong 2018 financial results that included record revenue, earnings per share and operating cash flow, driven by record commercial air craft deliveries, higher defense space and securities and services volume and strong performance. And all of our three businesses increased their backlog in 2018"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operating margin guidance for defense business is greater than 11% based on continued productivity efforts across the portfolio, offset by less favorable mix. Global Services revenue guidance is set to be between $18.5 billion and $19 billion with operating margins of greater than 15%. BGS margin guidance reflects solid performance, mix of products and services as well as investments to expand our portfolio of offerings. And as we discussed, we aim to grow faster than the average service market growth rate of 3.5%, as we expand our broad service offerings and gain market share while maintaining and growing margins."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We expect research and development spending to increase to approximately $4.1 billion in 2019, with approximately 60% related to BCA as we invest in future growth. BDS and BGS also continue to invest in key strategic growth opportunities and productivity enablers. In addition, we will continue to make investments at the corporate level for technology and innovation, with enterprise applicability. This 2019 R&D forecast also includes some timing shifts and some expenditure previously planned in 2018. Our R&D funding will continue to be focused on our core programs, key future franchises, productivity enablers such as automation, prototyping and capabilities to further are vertical content, lifecycle capture, and other key growth areas such as economy and mobility solutions. We will continue to make the required investment innovation and technology to ensure our products and services continue to win in the marketplace. And going forward, we expect our overall R&D spending as a percentage of revenue to be relatively stable. While our organic investment remains the primary engine for growth, we may partner with other industry players and investments that accelerate our lifecycle value strategy and strengthen our vertical capabilities and content, as demonstrated by the proposed strategic partnership with Embraer, which assuming all approvals are received in a timely manner we expect to close by the end of the year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Now consisted with prior years and given the seasonality of our business, as we look into the next quarter, we expect first quarter to be the lowest quarter of the year for revenue. With the relatively light commercial airplane deliveries, January is expected to have slow delivery activity consistent with prior year trends and reflects the supply chain recovery plans. Core EPS is estimated to be approximately 20% of the full year earnings, and first quarter operating cash is forecasted to be approximately 10% to 15%, again driven by lower volume and the timing of receipts and expenditures"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"As we look towards the remainder of the year our key focus areas are continuing to manage the 737 recovery progress within our factories and throughout our supply chain, including assuring rate readiness for a smooth transition to 57 a month, also working together with our U.S. Air Force customer delivering additional KC-46 tankers, continuing healthy order momentum, especially our new program such as the 777X, as well as strong execution across the portfolio including T-X and MQ-25 development."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So in summary, our core operating engine continues to deliver strong results. We continue to use our three business unit strategy as a key differentiator to win in the marketplace, make prudent strategic investments and leverage the talent and innovation from across the company. At the same time, we will set challenging goals and objectives around elements of operations and support functions tied to profitability and efficiency to generate cash, improve working capital while drive value to our customers. All these will help us achieve our growth goal to grow year-over-year revenue, margins and cash flow."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"With that, I'll turn it back to Dennis for some closing comments."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"All right. Thanks Greg. 2018 was the year of strong performance and record results on many different fronts operationally and financially. A demonstration of how our team remains focused on further driving both growth and productivity. These results were achieved through the hard work and dedication of our employees and the great partnerships that we have with our customers and suppliers. In addition to the strong commercial airplane market dynamics I mentioned earlier in my remarks, we have taken our own actions to reduce cyclicality in our business. This includes remaining disciplined in our production rate decisions, derisking our pension liabilities, strategically phasing our research and development spending, creating labor stability with long-term contracts, and expanding our services business, which is also less cyclical."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We've executed on our long-term strategy of robust and continuing organic growth investment and returning value to shareholders, complemented by strategic acquisitions and partnerships that enhance and accelerate our growth plans. The planned strategic partnerships with Embraer, the recent KLX acquisition, and the seats and APU joint ventures are entirely consistent with the strategy. Our priorities going forward are to leverage our unique One Boeing advantages, continued building strength on strength to deliver and improve on our commitments and to stretch beyond those plans and sharpen and accelerate our pace of progress on key enterprise growth and productivity efforts."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"As always, we'll continue to keep a close eye on the geopolitical and macroeconomic forces and prudently manage the risks. Achieving these objectives will require a clear and consistent focus on the profitable ramp-up in Commercial Airplane production, continuing to strengthen our Defense, Space & Security business, growing our integrated services business and leveraging the power of our three business unit strategy, delivering on our development programs, driving world-class levels of productivity and performance throughout the enterprise to fund our investments in innovation and growth, disciplined leading-edge investments and a balanced value-creating cash deployment strategy and continuing to develop and maintain the best team and talent in the industry, all of which position Boeing for continued market leadership, sustained top and bottom line growth and increasing value for our customers, shareholders and employees and other stakeholders.With that, we will be happy to take your questions."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our first question comes from Rajeev Lalwani with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We sharpened our focus on profitable, sustained long-term growth strategies, disciplined execution of our production and development programs, delivering greater life cycle value, including growing our services business and driving further quality, safety and productivity gains across the enterprise."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"On the 737 at what point you expect to be caught up on deliveries? And what are the pressure points identically? Also how does that inform the latest thinking and timeline on decision beyond 57 a month?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Certainly 737 production system health remains a key focus for us. As you can see by the fourth quarter deliveries with 173 in the quarter and 69 in December, good signs of recovering to our production plan. You can also see the increased rates reflected in our full-year guidance for deliveries for 2019, as we continue to ramp up. I would say we still have work to do on the recovery efforts. We have seen some good solid progress. We still have work to do inside our own factories and in our supply chain. And that is the daily and weekly focus for us, very intense effort. I'll say within the supply chain, we have seen some solid recovery in several areas. We still have some areas that need work including engines. And we are doing some additional work with CFM, including deploying some additional Boeing personnel to their factories and to their sub tier suppliers. So that\u2019s one area that will have some additional focus for us in the first quarter. And as Greg mentioned, just in terms of production profile for the year, we expect the first quarter to be the lightest quarter of the year, and we expect January to be the lightest month within that quarter. So we are going to continue to work hard on production system holds and recovery. And then as you alluded to, at same time, we are moving forward on our plans to ramp up to 57 a month during the year. Some elements of the supply chain have already moved to that position. We still have some work to do before we move the entire line to 57 a month. And we are going to be very, very disciplined in that process. Again we are making good progress. We know exactly what needs to be done, but we are going to just look at this through very clear eyes and step through it day-by-day, week-by-week, and make sure that we in a very disciplined and smooth way move to 57 a month. I think we learned some lessons from the 52 a month step that we did last year. And those lessons are certainly being applied this year on the 57 a month are rate changes. But you see all of that again reflected in our plans and our guidance for 2019."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question is from Myles Walton with UBS. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Could you catch us up on your latest thinking on the NMA? And maybe tie that to your view on moderating demand, I guess, if -- demand would obviously fluctuate a bit if you chose to launch the aircraft with the pile of launch customers, I would imagine. So maybe just juxtapose those two different points."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Myles, I would say -- first off, to take a look at NMA, we are still working through that same disciplined decision process that we talked about previously. We\u2019re making progress on that. We had very productive conversations with customers. We understand the markets. It's clear that there is a market need, but we\u2019re working through the details of the business case. And as we said, we are going to be very disciplined on how we do that. And while we\u2019re making progress, we're not up to our decision point yet. And just to provide clarity on that, as we mentioned before, we do see a decision point this year and that is a decision of whether we would offer the airplane in the market. And we need to complete the business case analysis before we arrive at that decision, but that is one that\u2019s for this year. And then assuming a positive market response or depending on the market response, we will make the final launch decision next year. So it's a two-step decision process as we've always done with Commercial Airplanes and a very disciplined process. All of that, we're continuing to work our development program work and maturing the technologies, reducing risk in parallel to protect a 2025 EIS or Entry Into Service. We think that remains important to our customers. So we\u2019re working all of that in parallel. And again will March in a disciplined way through our decision process. Our assessment of the market and the size of that market hasn\u2019t changed. Now, to our broader question on orders and how the markets looking, again, we continue to see strong demand signal. So I think you see that reflected in orders volume for this past year with 806 deliveries and 893 orders. And, while as I said, we expect some moderation or timing on orders going forward, we have a very robust backlog position with about seven years of backlog -- equipment backlog in position now."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"If you look at the stats on traffic growth, Cargo, global expansion of route structures all the fundamentals remained very strong, and we\u2019re encouraged by that. So we expect to see continuing steady orders volume. I wouldn't expect that to change significantly depending on the NMA decision. So we\u2019re going to be in the marketplace continuing to compete and win. I guess one other reminder on NMA, if we do decide to proceed with the authority to offer -- don't expect a big change in the R&D profile. This is all part of our planned R&D profile. As Greg said earlier, we expect R&D to continue to be roughly the same in terms of percentage of revenue going forward. So as revenue grows, you will see some R&D growth. That will be at the same percent. And if we launch NMA, it will better end on the backside of 777X. So from a profile standpoint it fits very nicely. Greg anything, do you want to add on that?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"No. Thanks. We got it."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"\u201cSo your margins of BCA are now in your target area of the mid-teens, with the 2019 guidance where it is. And you're still not fully ramped with production rates as more upside there, and you built the higher R&D into the 19 forecast. So I wanted to ask how much of this 2019 improvement in margins is volume versus mix versus productivity? And with the supply chain initiative still ongoing, what is your longer term margin potential now? How much further can you go. I was going to ask you how much it differs with and without a new airplane. But I think you just answered that part. So the components of the improvement in 2019 and then what the potential is long-term not that you've gotten this far."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. No, no. It\u2019s a great question, Rob. I would say it's all the above. I mean certainly, the increased volume is a big driver to that, but the mix of that volume is important. And we have talked about and particularly 787 executing on bringing in the -9 or -10 flawlessly into the market and meeting the commitments to our customers there and ensuring that happens smoothly while going up in rate. You saw that in '18, and you are going to see that in '19 as we look to go to 14 a month there, but the productivity engine. So -- I'll say the targets that we've set for ourselves is the same play book that we put in place for last number of years of really just looking where we have opportunity, where we can leverage best practices. We have talked a lot about this for One Boeing effort. But there is a lot of -- there is a lot behind that. and leveraging things that are going on F\/A-18 on 87, and leveraging things on 87 over onto Chinook and vice a versa. That's now part of our operating rhythm. And certainly it's how we are all rewarded and ultimately how the company is rewarded. So this complete alignment to leverage these practices same in the supply chain. So the whole partnering for success effort is -- some of that is also where we have had productivity gains, how do we take those back in the supply chain frankly make the supply chain even better. But to come up with ways where we can both take that to the bottom line and reinvest in growth for the future."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So I would say, it plays into all three, but I, Rob, I would think about the playbook, the same playbook you saw for the last couple of years that\u2019s the playbook. And I would add to that benchmarking ourselves outside. The full global industrial champion effort that you could imagine that target keeps moving. So when we look at the cost of the function what's the cost us to run a function or how efficient are we with our capital and with our R&D and what are some best practices within industrials, outside the industrial, how we bring them back in the Boeing, make it part of our operating rhythm and hold ourselves to a standard that it's not necessarily industry, it could be -- its best-in-class. And then again, holding ourselves accountable and targeting ourselves to go achieve all that. So I would say same playbook so we don't really have a cap. I think I would say it's really just continuing to look for opportunities and compete to win, use some of that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"For the full year, we generated record operating cash flow of $15.3 billion. We repurchased 26.1 million shares for $9 billion and made dividend payments totaling $3.9 billion in 2018.We continue to deliver on our commitment to returning cash to shareholders while investing in our people, innovation and future growth. In December, our Board of Directors authorized a new $20 billion share repurchase program and a 20% increase in our quarterly dividend. The increase is a part of our balanced cash deployment strategy and reflected the confidence we have in our strong lineup of products and services in our long-term outlook for the business.Turning to our core operating performance for the year, Boeing Commercial Airplanes generated revenue of $60.7 billion reflecting a record 806 deliveries, including the delivery of the first 787\u201310 Dreamliner and the first 737 Max 9. During the year, we delivered 256 Max airplanes nearly half of the total 737 deliveries."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"It is your pace of improvement because you hit your target or at least you will in '19 based on the guidance. And again, you are not done improving the organization. So is there a new target?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Rob, we are not slowing down. So as we said we set a target. We've been aggressively pursuing that. We've made some great progress and part of the team's efforts there. But the competition is only getting tougher, and we are not going to slowdown. So the pace of progress you have seen is the pace of progress we aim to sustain. And what we are looking for is continued year-over-year margin and cash flow growth. That's part of our planning. That's the framework that we set up for the team. And we are going to push with that pace."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question is from Carter Copeland with Melius Research. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Greg, I wonder if I just get a couple of clarifications on the quarter and then a question about the guidance. With respect to what you printed, just wanted to check on the unit earnings that the --, it looks like the 737 is still unit below your program margin, but not by much. And then with respect to the 87 deferred, it looks like you had a margin expansion there that kept the deferred down. I just wondered if that was correct. And then just building on Rob's question, what\u2019s built into your 19 plan? Do you have any material differences and period expense outside of R&D that you envision for next year that we should be considering. And so, can you help us quantify how we think about that?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. I mean, I would say outside of R&D, we definitely got some investments around productivity and systems that were making again, thinking about kind of long-term competitiveness. So we've got some money put aside in there and budgeted for the year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Does that help year-on-year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. So obviously, we will manage that extremely tight as we always do, but we got budgets in place there and clear initiatives in business cases to go drive that. They're at a little over and above what we we're spending in 2018."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"All included in that."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"All included. Absolutely, yes."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And your Unit 2 program, you got it, you right on it. I mean 737, but increase in 787, we had a block extension in the quarter that was a big driver of that units, sorry, that program margin increase."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Continued healthy sales activity contributed to 893 net new airplane orders during the year adding to our robust backlog stands at nearly 5,900 airplanes and is worth $412 billion. Our backlog equates to about seven years production at current rates.B Commercial Airplane milestones in 2018 included the delivery of the 787 Dreamliner and the first airplane from the new 737 completion center in China. The 737 program increased its production rate to 52 per month and made good progress on its recovery plans to mitigate supply chain challenges with the 173 aircraft delivered in the fourth quarter. Also in the year, we completed the first flight of the 737 Max 7 and delivered the first Max Boeing business jet airplane. The 777X program achieved a number of key milestones last year as we rolled out the static test airplane and began production of the flight test airplanes. We recently completed Final Body Join for the first flight test airplane and turned on its electrically powered systems. We plan to start flight testing this year and remain on track for the first 777X delivery in 2020. Meanwhile the 787 program further matured its rate readiness. We have started transitioning 14 per month in our factories and supply chain as we prepare to begin delivering at this higher rate. We expect to complete the transition in the second quarter."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And next we go to Douglas Harned with Bernstein. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I wanted to continue on the 787. And just to understand a little bit better, how you\u2019re looking at this longer-term and in terms of cash margin improvement? I mean, at a point now where you don't have that many shades in the mix anymore, and then you're going to have more [indiscernible]. And then, if I look at pricing, I wouldn't expect you to get a lot more from there. So can you talk about, as you look at the next few years, how you see that cash margin trajectory evolving and what's likely to drive it?\u201d`reinforces what Greg said. And then the value proposition for that airplane in the market with our customers is very clear that it's generating value and its winning in the marketplace on the pricing side. It's holding up well there as well just because of the value its creating for our customers."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Next question from Seth Seifman with JPMorgan. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"So you mentioned the idea of, I think, trying to bolster the backlog for 777 and 777x. And you talked a lot in the past about call wide-body replacement orders coming in the early part of the next decade. Does that mean in the near-term, are there 777x order opportunities or fewer opportunities in the near-term kind of focus on more of the classic and freighters and we are we kind wait until we get into the early part of the next decade to see the orders for the 777X comes through"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Seth, we\u2019re working both in parallel. Certainly during the last year we've seen some great progress on the 777 with the 51 net orders in the year. And that's really strengthens that the bridge that we\u2019re building 777 to 777X. We still have some work to do to fill out the remainder of the bridge, but our confidence continues to grow in our ability to do that. And as we've made that progress, we are now shifting our teams more and more to 777X opportunities. As you said we do see a high wave of replacement demand early in the next decade. But that means those sales campaigns are underway now. So those are very active, we\u2019re engaged with a number of customers around the world. The 777x clearly is bringing a value proposition as the market gets attractive. And you'll see us focusing more and more on those 777x campaigns here during this coming year. So that's a very near-term effort as well. And all of that is consistent with the investment profile and the production system ramp and transition that we talked about earlier."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Next, we will go to David Strauss with Barclays. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In the free cash flow walk that you provided, you highlighted the headwinds from 777x in 2019. Could you maybe talk about, is 2019 going to be the peak year for 777x investment, I\u2019m thinking mainly working capital. And how many airplanes do you plan on kind of having in flow before you actually start making deliveries?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. The profile, David, certainly for the reasons you described building the inventory and the test aircraft and so on. So this year there is more headwind. And then as we move into 2020, that headwind will moderate. And so we will start to have some more positive cash flow with the combination of 777X moving into production and then into delivery. So this is kind of a peak year for us on, I will say, cash usage on 777 combined with 777x. So as Dennis said, transitioning the airplane today in the factory and moving through building up that move from development to production will be key, and obviously, a big driver on the cash flow and things are going well out there today. So we got very good early signs that the aircraft is moving into production system smoothly and any challenges we're having we\u2019re working through we know what they are, but so far so good. So that'll be a big driver of cash flow going forward."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And did I hear you say that 777 deliveries in 2020 would actually step up a bit is that just the legacy kind of 777 rate holding and 777X starting to deliver?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Well, it's really the combined of the two. So it\u2019s the X and the 777. Now having said that, it's indicated we\u2019re still seeing lot of demand for the 777, in particular, in the area freight. So we\u2019re feathering all this together and making sure that we're in the marketplace and we are meeting the demands of the customers in the near-term, but at the same time feathering in the 777X. So that\u2019s kind of a key in 2020. But we're not seeing good demand there on the 777. So we will -- that will be a combined production rate on those two programs."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Now over to Defense, Space & Security. BDS reported revenue of $23.2 billion, a 13% growth year-on-year, reflecting higher volume across its business. BDS booked $36 billion of new orders during the year, including wins on important new franchise opportunities like the T-X trainer, the MQ-25 unmanned aircraft and the MH-139 helicopter. More recently, in the fourth quarter, BDS was awarded contract to modernize the entire Spanish Chinook Helicopter fleet and a joint ground system to provide tactical satellite communications for the U.S. Air Force. BDS made progress on a number of critical program milestones, including delivering the first two KC 46 tankers to the U.S. Air Force earlier this month. Two more tankers have been accepted by the Air Force, and we expect to deliver these aircraft imminently. We look forward to working with the Air Force and the Navy during their initial operational test and evaluation of the KC-46, as we further demonstrate the operational capabilities as this next generation aircraft across refueling, mobility and combat weapon system missions. Additionally we receive the contract provide the second KC-46 international tanker to Japan. This highlights the broader demand in market opportunity that we see for this program. Other key operational milestones for BDS included the unveiling of the SB-1 Defiant helicopter Boeing and Sikorsky are developing for the U.S. Army's joint multirole technology demonstrator program and completing another Minuteman III flight test."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. Just for clarity, 2020, production system will be operating in five months, when we look at that delivery rate, slightly increasing over the current 3.5 months delivery rate, that's the combination of 777 and 777X as Greg mentioned."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Next we will go to Sheila Kahyaoglu with Jefferies. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Going back to commercial profitability just because this is such a standout, how sustainable is the 100 bps of margin improvement? Are there any mix impact we should be thinking about with the 777 coming in with this changing customers dynamics for any pricing dynamics that would alter that trajectory?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"You're thinking kind of beyond '19?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Well, I mean, there is a lot of moving pieces. Obviously, when you get into '19, we're more stable at 14 a month and we're more stable at the 57. So again, we should be able to capture productivity and we're expecting to capture productivity in that. And there are some mix movements certainly between the 777 ramping down and the X moving in. So there's a lot of moving pieces, but I think, Sheila, and I will let Dennis comment here. But the objective we have in place is the same one as I address in the prior question. We\u2019re looking for opportunities where we can derisk production system and bringing in automation where we can bring in automation and bring in best practices with an overall objective to grow margins and fund our future and return cash to shareholders. So that's playbook. You should just think of that is the same no matter what the mix. So we don\u2019t let mix be the deciding factor. Mix is mix. It's our job to try to offset that or use that to our advantage the best way possible."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, and just to reinforce that Sheila, as Greg said, a lot of moving parts here, but the sustained margin growth trends is one that's long-term. So we expect to continue to see year-over-year margin growth in 2019 and further growth in 2020 and beyond. So this is all about long-term sustained top and bottom-line growth. And the gain book that we're operating here will drive that year-over-year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Next question is from Hunter Keay with Wolfe Research. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Let's think about the NMA for a second. I don\u2019t want to mid pick little bit, but again, as you just mentioned that NMA was going to be a two-step decision process with the final decision coming in '20. Are you saying that you would make the announcement for the public so to speak in '20 after talking your customers in '19? So if you could just clarify that announcement. And then the second part of the NMA question is how are these conversations going with your customers around this plane being used as a replacement aircraft versus opening up new market maybe relative to new designs in the past? Thanks"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, Hunter, let me take on the first one there. The process we are talking about here, the decision process, is identical to what we do so in all of our previous programs. So this year's decision is what we call authority to offer, that\u2019s based on a business case and our ability to go and have detailed discussions with customers that will be something that will be publicly announced once we make our decision around that. So that will be information that you will see and that will initiate deep and meaningful customer conversations. And then depending on market response and our ability to build the right kind of group of launch customers then we get to official launch -- authority to launch decision next year. So both of those steps are typically public steps, and ones that you would see. Again, I want to reemphasize the discipline that we are putting into this figure not only decisions related to the airplane in that market, they are also decisions related to the enterprise transformation objectives that we have in terms of production system for the future. So we are looking at this as a total enterprise effort and really being very disciplined in our business case analysis. And then your second question Hunter?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Good morning. My name is Jonathan and I will be your conference facilitator today. Welcome to Chevron's Fourth Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks Mike. Turning to Slide 5, an overview of our financial performance. Fourth quarter earnings were $3.7 billion or $1.95 per diluted share. 2018 full year earnings were $14.8 billion or $7.74 per diluted share, up more than 60% from 2017. In the quarter, foreign exchange gains of 268 million were offset by a special item related to the project write off. The detailed reconciliation of special items and foreign exchange is included in the appendix to this presentation."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"And so, there are times when we can fall in love with building complex equipment and there are realities that you can create optionality and margin through infrastructure and commercial activity at relatively lower investment. And I think this asset offers us on the opportunity to not just participate in the refining margin, but also to look at the other ways that through our integrated system we can capture value across the entire value chain both up and downstream and that's the way we are approaching this."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from the line of Sam Margolin from Wolfe Research. Your question, please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mike, I'm going to try to not ask you to say the same thing again in a different way. But one of the outcomes of the much Permian growth is maybe that the free cash flow profile of the Permian as a standalone entity has been pulled forward significantly. And maybe that is sort of an obvious statement or it is not new. But it seems like that is an important pendulum swing with respect to how you might think about additional long-cycle projects. So among all these other factors that are sort of -- that you have commented on kind of pointing you to thinking about expanding the portfolio in deepwater or other long-cycle areas, is that something that's important, too? Or is that more something that is on plan and you are just thinking about that within the buyback and the dividend growth and all your other sort of uses of cash that are out there?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So I think the increase performance of the Permian is a good new story. We did spend little more capital last year because we were finding that we can drill more hole we have changed our basis of designs, so little bit of capital overrun was related to the good news story that we are getting a lot more production out of the Permian. And our guidance has been we are free cash flow positive in 2020, and I think that\u2019s still a good way for you to think about it. As we have reached the crossover points it crosses over."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And we have increased the dividend that Pat has already addressed the confidence in increasing the rate at which we are repurchasing shares and our intent to sustain that through the cycle. Having strong free cash flow creates alternatives and we intend to use the free cash flow to be very mindful of the need for shareholder distributions and also to look for good investment opportunities. I mentioned we were able to meet all four priorities this last year in terms of dividend investments balance sheet and share repurchases and our intent is to continue to respect that going forward. This kind of growth and free cash flow allows us to do that."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Okay. And just on a related note; I guess this one is for Pat. Is there -- leverage came down a lot. Is there a target leverage to think about conceptually? Or is it just something that is going to be a function of commodity prices in terms of the rate at which the balance sheet fluctuates here?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Sam, we don\u2019t have a target leverage rate, we think of the balance sheet as being the outcome of other previously outstanding decisions about how we use the cash that we are generating. As I have said in the past, maybe a 20% leverage ratio on average through the cycles. And during the stronger price environment, you would obviously build back your balance sheet some and when you are in the weaker price environment you use it some."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So, I think that\u2019s really what we are trying to -- that\u2019s kind of the sweet spot or the sweet area that we are trying to play in. Having a good balance sheet, it\u2019s a good insurance policy. And having a good balance sheet, allows us for both dividend and share repurchases to sustain those through any period of price weakness. And we feel that that\u2019s an important component."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from the line of Alastair Syme from Citi. Your question please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"It was really just one on your view on the state of the Gulf Coast chemical polyethylene market and how that makes you think about potential expansion plans. Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"For the full year earnings excluding special items and foreign exchange totaled 15.5 billion. Return on capital employed for 2018 was 8.2%, up from 5% in 2017. Our debt ratio at yearend was 18% and our net debt ratio was approximately 14%. During the fourth quarter, we paid $2.1 billion in dividends, brining the full year total to 8.5 billion; and we increased the rate of our share repurchases from 750 million in the third quarter to 1 billion in the fourth quarter."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"We\u2019re still very positive on the petrochemical investments opportunity and particularly here in the states. I think it\u2019s a good long-term story. We've seen some pressure on margins here recently because feedstock costs in the third quarter were up. I think all in the chain margins have been under little bit of pressure, but these things happen in commodity markets with long cycle time for projects, and kinds of ebbs and flows in the economy. So, that hasn't fundamentally changed our view on the attractiveness of the sector."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Your question please."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"And Mike, we always appreciate you getting on these calls, so thanks again for doing it this time around. Mike, my question might actually be for Pat. Pat, you talked about the $13-billion-plus of cash spending. Can you give us an idea as the affiliate spending rolls off with Tengiz completed, how do you anticipate that cash CapEx to trend, given that you are holding the line on the $18 billion to $20 billion absolute spending at least through 2020?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I think Mike, answer that question in a way, although, we didn\u2019t split out cash verses total headline C&E. But as you see TCO's spending come off and as we move toward first production there in 2022, the other affiliate where we have potentially investment opportunities would be CPChem. And so that what occurs in that particular category will be a function of how decisions are made on investment [technical difficulty] for example."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"So it's not something that I can project with any degree of certainty. I think what\u2019s important is that the summation of both, what I would say company owned and operated an affiliate owned and operated, we\u2019re staying that $18 billion to $20 billion range for the near-term here certainly, and we will give you an update in March on prospectively longer period of time. But I think capital discipline is a theme that you want to read through all of this and the fact is that we have the opportunity to be very judicious and very selective about how we work in additional projects into our queue."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I know it's a tough one to answer, given all the variables. My follow-up is kind of related, I guess. But if we go back to 2010, 2011, 2012, through 2014, 2015, obviously a lot of big oils, yourselves included, were spending much higher levels than you are today. And one assumes that that created a lot of cost recovery barrels in some of the PSCs. So I guess my question is to the extent you can, as we look forward in light of Thailand, how do you see your entitlement barrels trending if you maintain that CapEx at these levels? Do you start to see cost recovery barrels tail off? And if you can maybe offer some quantification of that, I would appreciate it."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Doug, I don\u2019t think we've got numbers here that we can isolate for you on that. Cost recovery applies across the number of locations in our portfolio here. You\u2019re obviously aware of what happened in Indonesia. So, I don\u2019t think I have a pinpointed answer that I can give you on that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from the line of Doug Terreson from Evercore ISI. Your question please."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Mike, I have a question about portfolio optimization and specifically the divestiture part of the plan. And on this point, you guys have had a pretty active program over the years, but you still also have a decent amount of value left in the queue. So my question is, is this because the market for assets has softened somewhat? Or do you consider it to be kind of normal course of business during the cycle or is it something else? So any color on your divestiture program and the market trends you guys are experiencing is really the question."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Yes, I'm not a 100% sure I'm tracking with you there, Doug. We have always had program of divestitures, and there were times it's a little high and times it\u2019s a little bit lower, but in this business you are continually looking to upgrade your portfolio. We have got some things now that are really attractive. And I earlier mentioned a couple of things that we stepped away from because we didn't think they would compete for capital."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning to Slide 6. For the full year, cash flow from operations totaled 30.6 billion about 50% higher than 2017. Headwinds as we defined them in the past, total 2.2 billion for the year in line with my original guidance. For the quarter, cash flow from operations was 9.2 billion. It was lower than in the third quarter primarily because of lower commodity prices, but it was above first quarter when prices were comparable. This improvement was in the year was due to growth in production."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Divestments are driven by a view on strategic alignments with our broader portfolio and our view of the future, the resource potential that remains particular asset, will it compete for capital within our portfolio and there are good things as I mentioned earlier that cannot and then can we receive fair value. So that maybe a little bit of a function of what's the macro environment and the forward view on commodity price. But we are in a position that I think you can expect us to continue to high-grade our portfolio."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. So Mike, maybe I should have asked it differently. So it seems like you guys are experiencing healthy enough appetite for assets if you were a seller. Is that a good way to think about it?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, everything we are talking to people about right now we think we are likely to receive very good value."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our last question for today comes from the line of Biraj Borkhataria from RBC Capital Markets. Your question please."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"It was actually on the reserve replacement. In 2018, you had 136%; that was a pretty impressive figure, given the growth trajectory over the last few years. I was wondering if you could just disaggregate some of the impacts there, particularly on the price impact in terms of revisions from 2017 to 2018. And then what the key kind of moving parts where. Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, so, we did have another strong year, and our largest ads came through our Permian shale and tight activity through other shale and tight, and some of these other basins we've been talking about our Gorgon and Wheatstone, so primarily in the unconventional but contributions across the board from Australia, Canada, Asia, Gulf of Mexico, Eurasia. Our price was relatively small negative revision less than 100 million barrels on price. We produced just short of 1.1 billion barrels we sold about 60 million barrels."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So, there was not a big price impact in there and while unconventionals were the big piece, so we had contributions from others. The one thing that I would call your attention to is what we view as very high quality reserve addition. They are barrels that have bring with them lower risk that\u2019s lower execution risk and lower geologic risks and lower breakeven prices. And so, we would expect to continue to have a good strong reserve replacement story as we go forward given the quality of our portfolio and the continued improvements that we see particularly on conventional development activities."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"All right, well, that is the top of the hour. I want to thank everybody for your time today. I appreciate your interest in Chevron and everyone's participation on the call, and I look forward to see many of not all of you in New York City in March. Thanks very much."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes Chevron's fourth quarter 2018 earnings conference call. You may now disconnect."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Cash capital expenditures for the quarter were $4 billion and 13.8 billion for the year. And resulting free cash flow of almost $17 billion reduced our dividend breakeven price. We are covering our cash CapEx and dividend at just under $53 Brent, without consideration of asset sale proceeds. Before moving off cash flow a little guidance for 2019. As prices hold at current levels, we expect headwinds for 2019 to be between $2 billion and $3 billion."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Now onto Slide 7. Full year 2018 earnings of 14.8 billion were approximately 5.6 billion higher than 2017. Special items, primarily the absence of U.S. tax reform gain of 2 billion lower gains on asset sales and an increase in charges relating to project write off resulted in a net 3.9 billion decrease in earnings."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our previous foreign exchange impact benefited earnings between the periods by 1.1 billion. Upstream earnings excluding special items and foreign exchange increased by about 9.3 billion between periods primarily because of higher realization and increased lifting, slightly offsetting where higher operating expenses largely associated with continued ramp up production along with additional taxes and other costs."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Downstream results excluding special items and foreign exchange decreased by just over 90 million, lower volumes reflected sales of our Canadian and South African refining and marketing assets while higher operating expenses were associated with planned turnaround activity in the U.S. These earnings were mostly offset by favorable timing effects and improved results at CPChem."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In the other segment excluding special items and foreign exchange, net charges for the period increased by almost 750 million, due primarily to higher interest expense and lower tax deductibility for corporate charges. Full year net charges $2.3 billion in line with our guidance. Our 2019 guidance for the other segment remains about $2.4 billion in net charges. As a reminder though, quarterly results in this segment are non-ratable."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now on Slide 8. 2018 production was 2.93 million barrels a day, an increase of 202,000 barrels a day or more than 7% from 2017. This is the highest level of production in the Company's history. Excluding the impact of 2018 assets sales, production grew approximately 8% or 1% above the top of the guidance range we provided last January. Major capital projects increased production by 227,000 barrels a day as we continue to ramp up production at multiple projects most significantly Wheatstone and Gorgon."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Shale and tight production increased 132,000 barrels a day, primarily in the Permian where production grew by more than 70% from 2017. Base declines net of production from new wells, mostly in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico and Nigeria were 19,000 barrels a day. The impact of asset sales in particular from the U.S. mid-continent, Gulf of Mexico Shelf and Elk Hills field in California reduced production by 50,000 barrels per day."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I will now turn the conference call over to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chevron Corporation, Mr. Mike Wirth. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Entitlement effects in total reduced production by 46,000 barrels a day, 17,000 of which was due to the effect of higher prices during the year. Higher plan turnaround effects primarily at Angola LNG and Tengiz, reduced production between years by 26,000 barrels per day."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I'll now hand it back to Mike."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks Pat. Turning to Slide 9, reserve replacement continues to be a real success story. In 2018, our reserve replacement ratio was 136%. We added almost 400 million more barrels than we produced and divested. This outcome is especially significant because it was achieved while growing production more than 7%. Our reserves to production ratio stands at a healthy 11.3 years, showing the strength and sustainability of our portfolio. Our five year reserve replacement ratio of 117% further illustrates as strength through the price downturn."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Moving to Slide 10. We continue to maintain our commitment to capital discipline. Total C&E in 2018 was 20.1 billion. This included approximately 600 million of inorganic expense for which we don't budget, primarily related to bonus payments for offshore leases in Brazil and the Gulf of Mexico. The stacked bar depicts our organic C&E budget for 2019 of $20 billion."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Within this budget, the cash component is 13.7 billion while the remaining 6.3 billion is expenditures by affiliates, primarily TCO and CPChem. In our 2019 budget, 3.6 billion is allocated to the Permian and another 1.6 billion is allocated to other shale and tight assets. We expect approximately 70% of our total 2019 spends to deliver cash within two years. Our current spend profile has significantly lower execution risk relative to the past, and we have several large scale major capital projects underway concurrently."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning to Slide 11. I would like to provide an update on our portfolio optimization efforts. During 2018, we received before tax asset sale proceeds of $2 billion, with the largest contributors being the divestment of our Southern Africa refining and marketing business and our interest in the Elk Hills field in California. We recently completed the sale of our interest in the Rosebank project West of Shetlands in the UK."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In addition, we expect to close the sale of our interest in the Danish underground consortium in the first half of 2019, and earlier this week, we executed an agreement to sell our interest in the project deal in Brazil. We continue marketing our UK central North Sea and Azerbaijan assets. And with all the investments, we are focused on generating good value from any transaction. The progress we made last year is consistent with our guidance of $5 billion to $10 billion in asset sale proceeds from 2018 to 2020."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning to the Permian. Production in the fourth quarter was 377,000 barrels per day, up 172,000 barrels per day or 84% relative to the same quarter last year. Annual production was up more than 70%. In the Permian, we remained focused on returns. We are not chasing a production target, nor are we altering our plans based on the price of the day. Over the last two years, we transacted more than 150,000 acres through swaps, joint ventures, farm outs and sales, further optimizing our large land position."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In 2018, we had Takeaway capacity for oil and liquids that was more than sufficient, and we've already added more capacity this year. We're pleased with our position and leading performance in the Permian. In just two years, we've doubled our rig count, increased our resource base, decreased unit development and operating costs and more than doubled our production. We will provide new guidance for our Permian portfolio in March."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Moving to LNG, the plants at Gorgon and Wheatstone performed well during the fourth quarter and average almost 400,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day. This was despite higher summer temperatures in December. Higher temperatures as you know generally reduce LNG throughput. We loaded 329 LNG cargoes from Gorgon and Wheatstone last year. We have now commissioned that Wheatstone domestic gas plant and expect to provide gas to the local market in the next few weeks."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you, Jonathan. Welcome to Chevron's fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast. On the call with me today are Pat Yarrington, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Wayne Borduin, General Manager of Investor Relations. We will refer to the slides that are available on Chevron's website."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We will begin our routine cycle of planned turnarounds at Gorgon this year. We will be on a four-year cycle with one frame undergoing maintenance each of the first three years and the fourth year having no turnarounds scheduled. We expect turnarounds at the Gorgon fence to last about 40 days. These turnarounds offer the opportunities perform routine maintenance and also to make small enhancements that increase reliability and throughput. We anticipate significant cash generation from these assets for many years to come."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Slide 14 shows our production outlook for this year, assuming a $60 Brent price. We expect production to be 4% to 7% higher than last year, excluding the impact of any 2018 asset sales. Our growth is largely driven by shale and tight assets and full year production from Train 2 at Wheatstone. These forecasts always need to acknowledge the uncertainties in our business as noted on the slide. In summary, we anticipate a third consecutive year of strong production growth."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Moving to Slide 15, as announced earlier this week, we signed an agreement with Petrobras America Inc. to purchase its 110,000 barrel per day refinery and related assets in Pasadena, Texas. This addition to our Gulf Coast refining system allows us to process more domestic light crude, supply a portion of our retail market in Texas and Louisiana with Chevron produced products, and realize regional synergies through coordination with the refinery in Pascagoula. We expect to close by midyear and will provide further updates in our analyst meeting in March."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now just a few comments about future expectations. We expect positive production trends to continue in the first quarter and throughout 2019, reflected in the 4% to 7% growth forecast. As early as first quarter, we expect additional co-lending to TCO in support of the future growth project. In downstream, we expect low refinery turnaround activity in the first quarter which as you recall from our previous disclosures equates to an estimated after-tax earnings impact of less than $100 million."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Earlier in the call, Pat provided you guidance on cash flow headwinds and corporate charges for 2019. And as we communicated earlier this week, there will be a $0.07 per share quarterly dividend increase and we anticipate $1 billion in share repurchases during the quarter."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Moving to Slide 17 I would like to share a few closing thoughts. As I mentioned before, we intend to win in any abundance. As a result of our advantaged portfolio, capital discipline, lower execution risk, strong balance sheet and record level free cash flow, we are well-positioned to continue to deliver strong shareholder returns."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"That concludes our prepared remarks. We're now ready to take your questions. Keep in mind that we have a full queue, so please try to limit yourself to one question and one follow-up, if necessary, and will do our best to get all of your questions answered. Jonathan, please open the lines."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Phil Gresh from JP Morgan. Your question please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"First question, you talked about the dividend breakeven a $53 in 2018, you stepped up a dividend here at a higher rate than last year, and you\u2019re also stepping up the buyback. So I guess may if you could just elaborate a little bit on this breakeven where you see that going? Is it moving lower and giving you more confidence than the more return on capital? Or just how you think about that capital?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Well, Phil, we worked really hard over the last few years to get that breakdown. We were in the 80s not that long ago and have made significant progress in bringing the dividend breakeven down. We have provided I think a simple way to think about it in some of our prior definitions, and as we look forward in 2019, we think the dividend breakeven remains in the area where it was last year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Before we get started, please be reminded that this presentation contains estimates, projections, and other forward-looking statements, please review the cautionary statement on Slide 2."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"You see we've got really strong cash flows coming in right now, and the commitment to a competitive increase in the dividends the confidence to step up through right a share repurchases is evidence of our confidence that we've got those cash flows coming in, in a price environments, any reasonable price environment as Pat has said, that we will be able to sustain those kinds of payouts."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The other thing I would just point out is, our capital spending is still the same. And we have got the ability to provide strong production growth, sustain the kind of cash margins that you have seen out of our portfolio and do that at really modest capital spending relative to our history."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"The second question I guess would just be on that capital spending budget specifically for 2019. The Permian piece pretty flattish year-over-year which I think you've highlighted last quarter. The non-Permian shale piece just got the up quite a bit here. And I just wanted to know if you could maybe elaborate on that a little, not just stealing the thunder from the analyst day but. Is that something that is going to be contributing to this 2019 production growth guidance? Or is that something that you're ramping in '19, it would be more of a future contribution?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Well, we are beginning to ramp in the other basins. So, we've added rigs actually in all the other shale and tight basins in which we operate. We've seen significant reductions in development costs in the Marcellus, in the Duvernay and in Vaca Muerta as we have shared the learnings and improvements that are emanating from the large scale activity we have in the Permian. The economics on each of these are compelling. The EURs are coming up. And while the Permian maybe in the spotlight within our shale and tight portfolio, it's far from the only asset that we have."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The other thing that I just note is, we have begun an eight well appraisal program in El Trapial in the north of the Vaca Muerta. We are currently producing in the Sothern area Lana Compa\u00f1\u00eda, but our folks are intrigued by the possibilities up in the north at El Trapial, and we continue to prosecute that program. We have also picked up additional acreage in the Narambuena, a 25,000 net acres where non-operated with YPS, and we got a full well pilot that we plan to execute there in 2019 as well."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So great potential in Argentina and we really like our entire shale and tight portfolio; and again, it brings some of the characteristics we have been talking about, which is short cycle time, attractive economics, low development costs and the ability to generate cash relatively rapidly. The last thing I'll say about that is it brings a much lower risk profile than multiyear multibillion-dollar capital projects."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And Pat, what was the amount of the co-lend for TCO?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In 2018 the co-lend was zero."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"For the 1Q guide, I\u2019m sorry."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Oh, the 1Q guide, okay. So, I don\u2019t have like I would say, a confirm number here for you because it will depend on what happens to price. It will depend on what happened and how the cash flow that\u2019s generated from operations matches against the investment profile for the project. It will also depend on the dividend distribution requirements for the partnership. But I think order of magnitude, if you go back and you look at 2016 when we first started the co lending that was about $2 billion, and I think as order of magnitude starting off base, maybe think about $2 billion for this year. But as I say, we reserve the right to change that number as the year progresses and we see what actually happens to prices and the investment profile and as discussions are under way on dividend."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Back in March, I laid out Chevron's strategy to win in any environment. I outlined our three compelling strengths, an advantage portfolio, sustainability at lower prices, and a strong balance sheet. I also indicated that the combination of these distinct advantages together with the commitments to action highlighted in blue will deliver growing free cash flow and shareholder returns."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Paul Chain from Barclays. Your question please."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Mike, you talk about Argentina. I'm wondering, given the political environment, the infrastructure or lack of infrastructure over there, how quickly you think you can proceed with the development plan? And any kind of timeline or the pace or the capital outlook, any kind of data that you can share?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We will probably talk about this little bit more in March Paul. But I'd just reiterate, YPF has been a very, very good partner there. There Macri government is committed to improving the investment climate in Argentina and has instituted a number of reforms to encourage and support energy development in the country. We have great resource there that\u2019s benefiting from the Permian learning and competitive economics, multiple blocks that we picked up, and much of production can actually stay in the country."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"So at this point, yes, the infrastructure is not developed the way that it is in United States or perhaps North America more broadly, but there's a commitment on the part of the government to do that. And we'll pace our developments with the gas and liquids take away and market conditions. So, the realities on the ground in Argentina are a little bit different, but I got to see the resources tremendous, and we\u2019re very encouraged by the policy reforms that have been put forth by the government."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"And for Pasadena, the refinery that you just bought, what's the game plan for that facility? I mean, are you going to need to make a significant investment up front to bring them to the Chevron standard? Because that facility probably has been underinvested at least for 20, if not 30-plus years and the labor relationship has been always very rocky. So what's the game plan? And how much is the upfront investment? And secondly, are you going to run it as a full-blown facility or that is sort of by an extension of Pascagoula?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"So, let me try to respond to that Paul as best I can. We just executed an agreement this week. We don\u2019t expect to close here until somewhat later here in the first half of the year. So, it's a little premature for me to lay out an investment plan fully actually closed the transaction. In the due diligence, we have satisfied ourselves that we can operate the facility safely and reliably at the standards that we would expect. And so, I don\u2019t think you should have any concerns there. It meets our three primary criteria."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"One, we are getting it at a good price, and I believe one of the ways that you take risk out of the final acquisitions as you should don't overpay, and I don't think that we are over paying for the asset. It's in a great location and that allows us to integrate to increasing like crude production. Out of West Texas that allows us to serve our markets in Texas with product that we run through our own system as opposed to exchange or purchase product, and it will allow us to optimize and integrate with the Pascagoula refinery."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The third thing is, it provides good strong economics and because of our system in the three kind of strategic levers that I just talked about we ought to be able to optimize that refinery as a part of our system in a way that is different than what the current owner can simply because they don't have those other assets and those other positions."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And so within our business, this fills a bit of a gap, it gives us the ability to capture value in multiple different dimensions. And overtime, we will evaluate what investments we may choose to make there as we would in the other refinery. I would expect those to be relatively modest. I would expect them to be thoughtfully paced overtime and fit within the level of spending that we've established over the past many years in our downstream business."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from the line of Neil Mehta from Goldman Sachs. Your question please."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In 2018, we delivered. We grew oil and gas production by more than 7% achieving our highest ever annual production. We grew cash margins in our operated upstream assets, contributing to an improvement in cash returns. We lowered our unit costs and we sold $2 billion of assets. These outcomes yielded record free cash flow, a dividend increase and the initiation of the share repurchase program. 2018 was a very successful year and we intend to build on this momentum in 2019."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The first question I had with around Tengiz. In the latest on the project are you feeling good about the timeline and thoughts on cost and the contingency as well?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So I probably don\u2019t have a lot to add to what we have previously said on this. We are still on schedule, so we are still targeting a 2022 startup. As I think Jay mentioned on our third quarter call, on site productivity has improved. We had a very good summer. The logistics are working very well as we are moving modules now from Korea to the staging points. We can't move through the inland waterway system during the wintertime because it freezes up, but modules arriving from Korea from Italy and from Kazakhstan. The quality levels are very high."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We are about halfway through the project about 50% complete at this point. And in 2019, it will be a key year. There's a lot of activity in terms of moving modules into the Caspian to the site a lot of fieldwork where we will see if these productivity gains can be built upon again in 2019 and it\u2019s certainly a year where we will reduce uncertainty."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Jay is actually headed there this weekend and will be there in next week. And when we get to New York in March, he will have had recent field visits to Kazakhstan and also to Korea. He was in Korea visiting the module fabrication yards last week and he will be in a position to give you very good insight into exactly where we stand and what our expectations are."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, looking forward to that. And the follow-up: we just want to get some more color on the share buyback. To follow up on Phil's question, I think most of us were expecting $750 million. It came in at $1 billion in the fourth quarter. As we think about the share buyback program, our view had been that this program would be kind of a base load $3 billion program into perpetuity, but you are demonstrating that you are willing to flex and lean into it. Can you talk about the philosophy behind that share repurchase program? Is a higher run rate potentially sustainable? And how you think about flexing it from a big picture and then a more granular perspective?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, I\u2019m going to let Pat take it."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I think the keyword here is suitability and what you saw with our increase was just, our view of future cash generation, the confidence that we have in our future cash generation and the belief that we could move that rate of quarterly purchase up to $4 billion. When we first initiated this back in the second quarter call, the points that I made were that we really wanted to have this be through the cycle and sustainable through the cycle."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"And so that\u2019s really we paid the $3 billion because we thought that would be supportable to any reasonable price environment. We obviously had stronger prices in 2018 and not that come off a little bit, but we still feel very strong about our cash generation in 2019 and frankly in the years to come."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"You will note, maybe you won\u2019t note, but we did release an 8K this morning as well that talked to the fact that our board has supported a resolution for a $25 billion with share repurchase program with no term limit. So I think that $25 billion gives you can indication of that commitment, that we have to this program our view about the sustainability. Yes, I think that should be very strong message to our investor about our willingness and intent to boost shareholders distribution."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Jason Gammel from Jefferies. Your question please."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning to Slide 4, a view of our sources and uses of cash. Excluding working capital, we generated over $31 billion in cash flow from operations when we achieved record free cash flow of nearly $17 billion, the highest level ever achieved by Chevron in any price environment. This allowed us to deliver on all pore of our financial priorities. For the 31st consecutive year, we maintained our commitment to dividend growth and paid out 8.5 billion in cash dividends to our shareholders."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I wanted to ask a question about the cost structure of the Company. And the reason I ask is you have already taken a lot of cost out of the upstream, but you seem to be with divestitures and some explorations concentrating more and more into the highest-quality assets. I am just wondering if there is the potential to take further overhead out of the business through medium-term shutting down regional offices, etc. This seems to be right out of the Mike Wirth downstream playbook of taking further cost out and enhancing returns through concentration."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Jason, I will give you short answer and the answer is yes. I think in a commodity business you always have to looking for efficiencies, and I think scale matters and we need to continue to look for ways to control our own destiny. And a big part is moving into assets that have inherently lower cost structures in continuous seeking an efficient overhead structure to support that. I will tell you that, not only can you do that through what I would call conventional means in a ways there is always been done, but technology today offers us the ability to do even more as we bring digital technologies into our business and can do things in a business that really grew up in an analog world. There's a lot of opportunity to find more efficiencies."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"The other thing when you\u2019re growing your business, it's important to pay attention to unit cost and we've seen unit cost come down significantly. We see this year another 2% reduction or so in unit cost, and as you look out to 2020 and 2021, I think that number can go up even more in terms of the percent reduction or the other way to say as unit cost can come down even more. So, we need to be prepared to be competitive in an environment where prices are not what we look to and we will continue to work on cost efficiencies across our entire portfolio."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Just a very quick follow-up, can you talk about the ramp-up progress at Big Foot?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, so, we have got the first well online and it's been performing very well. It came on in November of last year. The second well is being drilled and completed as we speak, and we anticipate that going on here in the first quarter. So we will steadily move through the process of adding wells at Bigfoot and you can expect that to be part of the production story in 2019."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from the line of Paul Sankey from Mizuho. Your question please."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"You mentioned that you've done about 150,000 acres of swaps or sales I believe in the Permian, Mike. And hi, Pat, by the way. Sorry, I was slightly caught off guard there. I wanted just an update on where your final numbers are for Permian acreage. And how you feel about that, given that there's potentially some fairly major assets available. I guess you are strongly outperforming your volume targets. Can you also talk about your returns there? Because there's concerns that you are perhaps not as leading-edge as we might want you to be in terms of your Permian performance on a returns basis."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, so, we will share lot more detail in March because as you can see, the performance out of the Permian continues to be exceptionally strong. With the large land position that we have, we have got good currency and optionality, we try to improve that because everybody is interested in drilling longer laterals finding contiguous development areas."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And so, with our 2.2 million net acres and 1.7 million in the Midland of Delaware basins, we have got lots of levers with which to optimize our position and the nice thing about these transactions is they are truly win-win because you can transact with other people. There is enough economic value creation that you're not trying to split a finite pie, but you creating a bigger pie for both."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our currently disclosed resource, there is 1.2 billion barrels that\u2019s a figure that we would expect to grow. So our confidence in the Permian is higher today than it was the last time that I spoke to you. When you talk about returns, we put out data before on the returns that we are seeing and they are well locked in 35% plus range as we have moved to longer laterals of better basis of design and even in a modest price environment, we are seeing very, very strong returns. It's as good as or better than anything else we could be doing."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Earlier this week, we announced a $0.07 per share increase in our quarterly dividend to $1.19 per share, representing a 6% increase. Second, we allocated capital across a diverse portfolio and funded our highest return projects. We have confident these investments position us for sustainable growth and free cash flow. Third, we strengthened our balance sheet and paid down debt by 4.5 billion. Finally, we began repurchasing shares in the third quarter and increased the rate in the fourth quarter, demonstrating further confidence in our future cash generation."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We are returns-driven and I mentioned that in my prepared remarks and I'll reiterate that, and as returns across the lifecycle of the asset and as returns across the entire value chain. And so we are not looking to put the most wells online or have the biggest IPs, we are looking to get the best returns out of the system. We paused at 20 rigs for several years. We've been telling you we are going to grow to a 20 rig fleet."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And as you go through that kind of growth, you stress the system little bit. And so, we're pausing in terms of adding rates at this point in order to ensure that anything that needs some proof from a thought performance standpoint will. We engage in regular benchmarking within the basin. We have a number of non operated joint ventures, we got really good visibility into what other operators are doing and what levels they are performing at. And I will simply tell you that we\u2019re continuing to improve performance in every dimension in intent to continue to and using benchmarking to identify the areas where we can get better."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So, our Jay will talk a lot more about this in March. We will have a breakout session that will give you a chance to go into details with questions as well. But we feel like we are delivering better performance and across the value chain, I mentioned we been well situated with takeaway capacity and we\u2019ve added capacity already in 2019. So we\u2019re able to capture margin across the value chain and later this year that will include refining margin."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks Mike. And we know also that you have got an advantaged mineral right position there, which seems to be one of the issues with any potential major deals that might occur in the Permian in the near future. Mike, if I could ask you another one. I was going to make some elaborate joke about you keeping it competitive by not having just the CEO on the call but also the CFO. But obviously referring to Exxon's CEO being on the call this morning, there is a major number of major differentiations between the two companies and one of them is your flat CapEx outlook. I think that you would do well to maintain that. I think it is a relatively long-term outlook as it stands. You have just drifted towards the top of the range without going above it. What are the prospects of you actually seeing falling CapEx and CapEx that surprises to the downside going forward, given that your growth trajectory looks very good for a company of your size?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Yes, so we were committed to capital discipline. We can grow our business at modest capital levels and we have more good things to invest and then we will invest in. Last year there are two notable examples. We relinquished our rights to the Tigris development project in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, not because it's not a good project, not because it can\u2019t generate a return but we have better opportunities within our portfolio, same thing with Rosebank good projects, a lot of resource but one that probably fits better for someone else than it does for us given our alternatives to invest. And so, we will continue to make those kinds of choices."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The one thing that came up in the call earlier were the other shale and tight opportunities, and those are really economic as well. And so, there are opportunities for us to whether you're talking in the Permian or some of these other areas overtime to find highly attractive opportunities to invest further capital generate strong returns, minimize execution risk, short cycle annual."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And as our portfolio grows, we were up 5% in production, two years ago 7% last year we just outlined 4% to 7% this year growing portfolio overtime does require modestly higher based capital spending that would go with that. And so, we're committed to capital discipline and I think you've characterized our ability to grow it. So it's relatively flat capital well. We will update forward views beyond what we've already articulated when we get to the March meetings."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from the line of Blake Fernandez from Simmons. Your question please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Two questions for you. One: could you talk a little bit about Venezuela? I know it's early days, but obviously you do have exposure there, both upstream and downstream and just any helpful thoughts that might help us out on our end."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, I can give you quick update on Venezuela, Blake. First and most important thing for us is the safety of our people on the ground, and so that's what we are really focused on. We also want to be sure the operations where we have an interest are safe and environmentally sound. And I can tell you that that is the case. We have worked closely with the governments to be sure that we understand the intent of the sanctions within a number of new general licenses issued by the Treasury Department. And so, we are in close consultation to be sure we understand them and how they are to be applied."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"With that I'll, turn the call over to Pat who will take you through the financial results. Pat?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And I will say that the U.S. government has been very interested and engaging with us to understand our position on the ground. And we continue to operate and I think for the foreseeable future we feel like we can maintain a good stable operation and the safe operation on the ground in Venezuela. If you look at it from the downstream side in the U.S., Pascagoula is the one refinery of ours that tends to run Venezuelan crude and it runs 70,000, 75,000 barrels give or take. For some time, the prospects of actions like this have been clear and so we have had contingency plans in place."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We have got alternate sourcing. We have got plenty of crude in tank for Pascagoula. We have got crude on the water there. And so, we are good here for the balance of the first quarter and maybe a little bit beyond and then back to visit our contingency planning into a full-scale execution right now. So, we will keep the refinery full with the crude. We will optimize and I think we feel like we are going to able to navigate through this. Our biggest hope is for stability on the ground in Venezuela and the safety of, not only our employees, but the contractors and the people in Venezuela."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"The second question: I know you've kind of covered Pasadena and we will get some additional color in March. But just more broadly speaking, I think you have kind of alluded to a potential acquisition of a refinery on the Gulf Coast for some time. The size of this is 110,000 barrels a day or so, which isn't small, but it's not really large in context of some of the Gulf Coast facilities. Does this satisfy kind of your appetite or integration potential there? Or do you think there is additional scope to kind of expand that overtime?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I don\u2019t want to speculate really we got one transaction here that we have signed an agreement on. The key is value and the ability for it to not only yield value on a standalone basis, but to integrate into our network and to be sure we can capture value out of them so we are focused on that with the Pasadena refinery. And I think I will leave it at that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from the line of Roger Read from Wells Fargo. Your question please."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I know all the really fun stuff has got to wait to March, but maybe to take a look at your CapEx mix. You mentioned 70% has a 2-year or less weighting to cash flow, whereas the rest obviously longer. Do you think as we not so much look at a total CapEx number but the mix within that CapEx, does that start to change back over the next couple years? I'm thinking number one: you signed a long-term deepwater rig contract obviously aimed at some of the more challenging parts of the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico. So as things like that start to come in, do we see that start to move maybe to more of a 50\/50 on CapEx? Or is that something you want to maintain maybe more at the 70\/30 level as we think over the next several years?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Yes, Roger, it\u2019s a good question because our mix has shifted very dramatically from it was not long ago and its come down by 50% from the high watermark and that shifted in terms of makeup. I think both important issues and going back to Paul Sankey's question. I think that is the new normal for us. We got in this year budget a little bit over $5 million for shale and tight, 3.6 in the Permian, 1.6 on other shale and tight. And overtime, I think that number is likely to grow rather than on shrink. We get FGP which is in the peak spending years this year and next. And so, that's a non-trivial amount little bit over $4 billion in this year's budget. And so as that moves past the fleet and comes down, it creates room for other things and that could include deepwater, it could include more shale and tight or other major capital projects."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"On the under deepwater our incent was to have a ratable development program and I think one of the things that we have learned over this past cycle I mentioned, we have very large MCP underway simultaneously is that that introduces execution risk that is real. And so, our intent would be to have a balanced approach as we go forward and not to find ourselves. So overly skewed to that kind of risk that that it becomes an issue that's difficult to manage and because we've got the really strong shale and tight portfolio, I think that plus our base business which again is requires investment, but it's typically short cycle and trip to go from capital spent to cash in the door. I think the kind of range that we\u2019re today is more likely to plus or minus be the range you would see in the future as opposed to something that flips back the other direction."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"And then just to beat the Pasadena refining horse a little bit harder here, part of the acquisition indicated some undeveloped acreage. Are we wrong to think about this as just a refining acquisition and maybe should think about it more as an infrastructure opportunity across the board? I'm thinking we're moving more and more towards crude exports from the US."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I think there is a reason we disclose that because the asset there is not simply the refinery, but it's the port access, it\u2019s the tankage and it's the land. And I mentioned a couple of times that, our goal is to integrate this into our system. That means our upstream system or downstream system our trading system, and when I was young pup one of the lessons I learned from Susan engineer in one of our refineries is, he said, the cheapest process we have in this refineries is call the tank."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you, Ellen. We have a strong 2018, with total revenues of $136.8 billion, up 23% over 2017, reflecting the benefit of our ongoing investments to deliver exceptional experiences for users and compelling returns for our advertisers, partners and enterprise customers."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Stock-based compensation totaled $2.3 billion. Headcount at the end of the quarter was 98,771, up 4,399 from last quarter. Consistent with prior quarters, the majority of new hires were engineers and product managers. In terms of product areas, the most sizable head count increases were in Cloud for both technical and sales roles."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Operating income was $8.2 billion, up 7% versus last year for an operating margin of 21%. Other income and expense was $1.9 billion, which includes $1.3 billion of unrealized gain related to a non-marketable debt security investment. We provide more detail on these line items within OI&E in our earnings press release."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our effective tax rate was 11.2% for the fourth quarter, reflecting a discrete benefit due to the reversal of an accrual made as a result of updated guidance associated with the U.S Tax Act. Net income was $8.9 billion and earnings per diluted share were $12.77."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Turning now to CapEx and operating cash flow. Cash CapEx for the quarter was $7.1 billion, which I'll discuss in the Google segment results. Operating cash flow was $13 billion with free cash flow of $5.9 billion. We ended the quarter with cash and marketable securities of approximately $109 billion."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Let me now turn to our segment financial results. Starting with the Google segment. Revenues were $39.1 billion, up 22% year-over-year. In terms of the revenue detail, Google Sites revenues were $27 billion in the quarter, up 22% year-over-year. In terms of dollar growth, results were led again by mobile search, with a strong contribution from YouTube followed by desktop search. Network revenues were $5.6 billion, up 12% year-on-year reflecting the ongoing momentum of AdMob and Google Ad Manager."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Other revenues for Google were $6.5 billion, up 31% year-over-year fueled by Cloud, Hardware and Play. We continue to provide monetization metrics in our earnings press release to give you a sense of the price and volume dynamics of our advertising businesses."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Total traffic acquisition costs were $7.4 billion or 23% of total advertising revenues and up 15% year-over-year. Total TAC as a percentage of total advertising revenues was down year-over-year, primarily reflecting a favorable revenue mix shift from network to sites. The increase in the sites' TAC rate year-over-year was driven by the ongoing shift to mobile, which carries higher TAC, followed by changes in partner agreements offset by the seasonally higher proportion of YouTube advertising revenues in the fourth quarter."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In Q4, the network TAC rate declined year-on-year, primarily due to our revenue mix shift within our programmatic business. Google stock-based compensation totaled $2.1 billion for the quarter, up 22% year-over-year. Operating income was $9.7 billion, up 13% versus last year and the operating margin was 24.8%.Accrued CapEx for the quarter was $6.8 billion, reflecting investments in office facilities, datacenters, and servers."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Let me now turn to and talk about Other Bets. I'll cover results for the full-year 2018 because it remains most instructive to look at the financials for Other Bets over a longer-term horizon, as we've discussed on prior calls. Results for the quarter are in our earnings release."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"For the full-year 2018, Other Bets revenues were $595 million, up 25% versus 2017 primarily generated by Fiber and Verily. Operating loss for Other Bets was $3.4 billion for the full-year 2018 versus an operating loss of $2.7 billion in 2017. Other Bets accrued CapEx was $181 million, down from $493 million in 2017 primarily reflecting investments in Fiber."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"For the fourth quarter, revenues of $39.3 billion or up 22% year-on-year and up 23% in constant currency, as we continue to benefit from ongoing strength in mobile search with important contributions from YouTube, Cloud and Desktop Search."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Key recent accomplishments include: in December, Waymo launched Waymo One, which enables participants to use its app to hail and pay for rides. Also Verily recently announced a $1 billion investment round led by Silver Lake as it advances on plans that are complementary and additive to its current life sciences portfolio. That investment of course was in addition to the $800 million it raised from Temasek previously."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Let me close with some observations on our priorities and longer-term outlook. First, with respect to revenues. Our 23% revenue growth in 2018 was powered in particular by the ongoing benefit of innovation in our Sites business. With eight products, with more than 1 billion users each and more people coming online every day, we remain excited by the opportunities to continue to create valuable experiences for users around the globe."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In particular, we see significant ongoing potential to apply our machine learning capabilities across our businesses. In our advertising business, machine learning has enabled innovation in advertisers ability to match consumer intent into bit more effectively for improved ROI. It has also enhanced the ability of smaller businesses to benefit from advertising on our platforms."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Machine learning is also driving differentiation for newer Google businesses, like Cloud and Hardware, as well as central to a number of Other Bets, most notably Waymo and Verily. Looking ahead, a couple of things to note. First, as we\u2019ve said many times, we continuously work to enhance the user and advertiser experience because we make changes with a focus on the best interest of users and advertisers over the long-term, the timing of the introduction of new experiences, particularly, in search advertising can vary which can result in an impact on quarterly year-on-year growth."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Second, during 2018, the FX tailwinds in the first half of the year turn to headwinds in the third and fourth quarters, in line with the strengthening of the U.S dollar. Based on the continuing strengthening of the U.S dollar, we expect a headwind to reported versus fixed FX results in the first quarter, in contrast to the favorable impact of FX in the first quarter of 2018."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning to investments and profitability. In terms of gross margin, the biggest component within cost of revenues remains our traffic acquisition costs, reflecting our strong revenue growth in mobile search and the fact that mobile search carries higher TAC than our desktop business. As we've discussed on prior calls, while the pace of year-on-year growth in Sites TAC as a percentage of sites revenues, slowed after the first quarter of 2018. We do expect the Sites TAC rate to continue to increase year-on-year, reflecting ongoing strength in mobile search."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Within OpEx, we remain focused on prioritization in order to optimize resources for longer-term growth in sizable markets. You'll see us continue to support our priority areas with increased headcount, which will remain concentrated in R&D. Although we expect the growth rate to moderate in 2019. In 2018, we also saw continued progress on our goal to nurture new businesses outside of Google, our Other Bets with a model of independence.\n"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"While I've said previously that there is no monolithic approach to how the Other Bets execute against opportunities, a shared principle is aligning employee interest with the long-term value creation by these companies. Since inception, this has been an important part of our approach at Google with stock grants comprising a meaningful component of overall compensation across our employee days."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We are increasingly following that approach in the Other Bets with compensation programs that align employee and company interests. You\u2019ve seen the impact of some of those programs in the fourth quarter as we accrued compensation expenses to reflect increases in the valuation of equity in certain Other Bets. While these expenses will recur, the timing evaluation events is unpredictable and can vary between debts which can affect quarterly comparisons."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Finally, on capital allocation. Our primary use continues to be to support organic growth in our businesses, followed by retaining flexibility for acquisitions. After taking these needs into account, our Board has authorized the repurchase of up to an additional 12.5 billion of our Class C capital stock."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"For today's call, I will begin with a review of results for the quarter on a consolidated basis for Alphabet focusing on year-over-year changes. I will then review results for Google followed by Other Bets, and will conclude with our outlook. Sundar will then discuss business and product highlights after which we will take your questions."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"With respect to CapEx, we continue to invest in both compute requirements and for office facilities. Although we expect the CapEx growth rate in 2019 to moderate quite significantly. In conclusion, 2018 was another great year, with tremendous ongoing opportunity ahead of us."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks, Ruth. Last year, we set out to bring the benefits of AI to everyone through our products. And I'm proud of the tremendous progress we made towards that goal. From smart compose and Gmail to the new Google news experience, to call screening on the pixel and improving the overall safety of our products. AI's helping people get things done every day. Beyond our products, AI is also helping us drive our mission forward at the scale we couldn\u2019t have imagined just a few years ago."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Google Al Lead, Jeff Dean recapped the results of our efforts in a great post on our AI block. Accusing AI to better deduct the spread of breast cancer, or providing flood victims, with real-time information in a crisis. I encourage everyone to check it out."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We also launched the Google AI impact challenge to help nonprofits find ways to use AI to solve social and environmental problems. In addition to our progress in AI we saw great traction across newer areas, like the Google assistant, hardware, and Cloud. And our core area such as search maps new use YouTube under computing and advertising platforms continue their strong momentum."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Everything we do at Google is united by the mission of making information accessible and useful for everyone. Providing accurate and trusted information at the scale the internet has reached is an extremely complex challenge. And one that is constantly getting harder. But we\u2019ve 20 years of experience in these information challenges, and it's what we strive to do better than anyone else."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"As we do this, we feel a deep sense of responsibility to do the right thing and are continuing to build privacy and security into the core of our products, keeping uses data safe and secure with the industry's best security systems and giving people better and clearer controls. You will see us continue to do a lot more here in 2019."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Today I will start by sharing some of the new ways that we are working towards our mission. Then I will give an update on our video and advertising platforms, followed by the latest on our hardware and cloud efforts. And I will close with a few thoughts on our investments around the world. First, advancing our mission of making information accessible and useful. The Google assistant is a great example of how we help people throughout the day and we demonstrated that at CES last month with lots of exciting new partners and features."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"From the Lenovo Smart Clock that wakes you up in the morning to real-time navigation that helps during your commute. To a build in interpreter that translates conversations across dozens of languages on Google home. And speaking of languages, over the past year the Google assistant expanded from eight languages and 14 countries to nearly 30 languages and 80 countries. In that time, the number of active users us quadruple. As we had more partners, devices and capabilities, the Google assistant will only get better and more helpful."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"There's a lot of great progress in other areas too. Last month, we announced the launch of activity cards and search. Now when you search for a topic that you\u2019ve previously explode, you can quickly see very of already being and pick up where you left off. Thanks to our strengths in AI and Search, Google Lens uses your smartphone camera to help identify more than 1 billion products. So if you see an item that you like, Lens can show you similar designs, along with useful information like product reviews."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We continue to see great momentum across our computing platforms, android and chrome. In Q4, we announced that android was officially support affordable phones that partners like Samson introducing their first portable devices this year. We see continued traction with manufacturer adoption of android auto. We recently announced new media and messaging features to significantly simplify and improve the car dashboard experience."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Let me start with a summary of Alphabet's consolidated financial performance for the quarter: our total revenues of $39.3 billion reflect a negative currency impact year-over-year of $724 million or $600 million after the impact of our hedging program."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And building on the speed simplicity and security of chrome OS, partners like Asus and HP, introduced a slew of great consumer and enterprise Chromebooks last months at CES. Now let me provide an update on our video and advertising platforms, starting with YouTube."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We are seeing great traction in some of our newer experiences on YouTube. YouTube music and YouTube Premium are now available in nearly 30 countries up from five countries at the start of 2018. Last month, YouTube TV announced that it is expanded nationwide to cover 98% of U.S households with the rest to follow shortly. YouTube continues to invest in its thriving community of creators and build great features for its nearly 2 billion monthly log in users."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"For instance in Q4, the expanded access to tools like stories and community polls that strengthen the connections between France and creators. One of our newest tools, Premiers, is a breakout hit. Ariana Grande's premiere of her official music video for Thank U, Next in November holds the record for biggest music video debut in YouTube history earning over $55 million views in its first day."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We are driving revenue to the YouTube creator community from established channels to newly emerging ones. The number of YouTube channels with more than 1 million subscribers nearly doubled in the last year, and the number of creators earning five or six figures grew by more than 40% year-over-year. A big priority for YouTube in 2019 is to continue our work to quickly find and remove content that violates YouTube's content guidelines."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"It's an important challenge and with advanced machine learning and investments in human reviewers, we are making continued progress. Now I'll touch on some of the recent highlights of our advertising business, which continue to go from strength to strength. Recently, Warner Brothers embedded the first full-length film with an ad on YouTube and reached a record number of people."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Over 17 million users in a single day. Viewers who watch the trailer for LEGO Movie 2 on Black Friday, were served the franchise's original film for free within the Ad. So great example of how advertisers continue to delight users on YouTube. Performance advertisers love TrueView for action. YouTube's direct response offering. Since the product launch in March 2018 over 30% of the advertisers who use TrueView for action were new to buying inc and video ads on YouTube."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In Q4, we also announced a global strategic ad tech relationship with The Walt Disney Company across their entire portfolio of brands and properties. With Google Ad Manager as its core platform, Disney will be able to serve across its digital property seamlessly. On the web and mobile apps through connected TVs and even during live events."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our shopping tools, that are also front and center during the holidays, helping retailers reach people during the busy holiday shopping season. In fact, the number of shopping daily active users on Google.com during the holidays, double compared to last year. Thanks and part to new features like product list modules that showcase the most popular products across the web."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Small retailers are also benefiting from automated bidding solutions like smart shopping campaigns, which now has more than 20,000 live merchants. Impressive progress since launching in April. Now on to our growing hardware efforts. During the holiday season, our newest line up of made by Google Devices top many best of 2018 looks. The response from shoppers was equally positive."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"It was another record year for our Google home family of devices, with million sold this holiday season. They\u2019re helping people easily get things done around the house. For example, people use Google home devices to cook over 16 million recipes this holiday season. 1 million on Christmas Day alone. Our newest smart displays were particularly popular. One out of every seven Google home devices activated or the holiday season was a Google home hub."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning to Alphabet revenues by geography, you can see that our performance was strong again in all regions: U.S. revenues were $18.7 billion, up 21% year-over-year. EMEA revenues were $12.4 billion, up 20% year-over-year in both reported and constant currency terms with a slight headwind primarily from the euro."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In Q4, we launched significant advances in computational photography in our pixel three with features such as night sight for lowlight photos. We\u2019ve also expanded availability to four more countries: Japan, France, Ireland, and Taiwan. And finally, our growing cloud business. I want to thank Diane Greene for her leadership over the last three years."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Google Cloud is a fast-growing multibillion-dollar business that supports major global 5,000 companies in every important vertical with a robust enterprise organization. This was not the case just three years ago. What Diane and their team accomplished, it's phenomenal. Now Diane's work is done and she has handed the reins to Thomas Kurian, and I\u2019m thrilled to have him here as our new Cloud leader."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Google Cloud closed out the strong year, with momentum across the business. Last year, we more than doubled both the number of Google Cloud platform deals over $1 million as well as the number of multiyear contracts signed. We also ended the year with another milestone, passing 5 million paying customers for our cloud collaboration and productivity solution G suite. Our focus on helping customers digitally transform their businesses is paying off."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We continue to see strong growth in all our major geographies and industries this quarter. In financial services, we signed agreements with two of the top financial institutions in the U.S to help them transition their business to Google Cloud with our highly secured solutions. In retail, brands like Bed Bath & Beyond, DSW and Ulta Beauty are using our cloud to manage data and provide more personalized experiences to consumer."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In Media and Entertainment, the telegraph and the U.K's going all in with Google Cloud because of our data and machine learning expertise. To support our global growth, in Q4, we launched our 18th Google cloud region and announced plans for a new region in Jakarta. So as you can see we are investing in the many incredible opportunities across our business. We would also investing in communities around the world and right here at home. I was recently in Europe opening up our new office in Berlin, which will help us more than doubled the number of Googlers who work there."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Across Europe, we've invested more than \u20ac4.3 billion in five data centers since 2007. And in Q4, we announced a new data center coming in Denmark. In all, it's estimated that these data centers have generated more than \u20ac5.4 billion in GDP over the last ticket. Of course the amount generated by our creator, publisher and app developer partners across the region is orders of magnitude larger."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We also continue our substantial investments throughout the U.S. Last year, we made significant investments in new and expanded office space. In Q4, we open the doors to our new office in Detroit and announced that we will be investing over $1 billion in capital improvements to establish a new campus in New York City, which will begin to open in 2020."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We are also continuing to invest in data center construction and expansion. There is an important long-term investment that lay the groundwork for our future computing needs primarily to x-rayed machine learning across our businesses. But also to support the opportunities we see in cloud, search, ads and YouTube. More than 20 years in there is still tremendous opportunity for Google to help people save time, learn new things, grow their businesses and build stronger communities. I want thank every Googler around the world for making 2018, a great year for users and our business."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you so much for taking the question. Two, if I could. On YouTube, you never have a number of brands in the marketplace between YouTube Premium, TV, YouTube Music. How are you thinking about positioning those brands against a global opportunity, especially in mobile to consume media on a global scale and how you\u2019re positioning those brands for the opportunity. And then, Ruth, I wanted to come back to comment on revenue versus extends with respect to YouTube. It sounds like called out YouTube as strong in the quarter on the revenue side, but is depressed on the expense side. Was that because of licensed content for things like Music and YouTube TV, or what is ad splits? How should we think about what the drivers were there and how they\u2019re now permanent versus seasonal in Q4. Thank you so much."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks Eric. On the YouTube question, of course, our core effort is around the main YouTube product and that is what works at scale globally across the world and we are seeing continued engagement and it's doing very well. We are committed to making sure there's a premium experience on YouTube, delivering the content people would want and YouTube Music is an important part of that as well. So we're investing in both. As you know YouTube TV is U.S only and we are definitely -- it's an exciting product. It's differentiated and has long run value for us because it brings our advertising products together including being able to serve it across TV. So we are clearly investing in areas where we see opportunity. We are pretty thorough about making sure our investments deliver growth on the other side. And so we monitored with metrics and beat engagement and revenue growth and we see a lot of opportunity here."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"APAC revenues were $6.1 billion, up 29% versus last year and up 32% in constant currency, reflecting weakness of the Australian dollar. Other Americas revenues were $2.2 billion, up 16% year-over-year and up 26% in constant currency, reflecting weakening of the Brazilian real and the Argentine peso."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And then in terms of revenue it's an investment in YouTube, overall, as Sundar said, we are --YouTube is continuing to benefit from the secular change the way users are consuming content and that's reflected in strong revenue growth. Brand advertising does remain the largest part of the business. It's growing at a strong pace and as I said in opening comments, we're particularly excited about the significant growth in direct response both TrueView for action and app promo formats are delivering a great value for users and advertisers, and that's driving growth across regions and channels. In terms of the expenses, I think what you're referring to is within other cost revenues. The primary driver in the fourth quarter was the increase in content acquisition costs due to YouTube growth and that's both for ad supported content and what is typically a seasonally strong quarter. And also for our newer subscription businesses, which do have higher TAC as a percentage of revenue we're excited about the growth we're seeing here."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Thank you so much for taking my questions. One for Ruth and one for Sundar. Ruth, if I look at the segment operating losses for Other Bets, they were higher both in the fourth quarter and for the year '18 over '17. Is it safe to assume that investments at Waymo or can you just flush out a little bit more for us if possible, were there other Other Bets besides Waymo, which were worthy of call out in terms of greater or decreasing investment. That will be great? And then for, Sundar, I\u2019m just wondering if you could provide us any commentary about how good the Cloud is going? Any milestones? You talked about the investment there. Ruth did, I think, in terms of headcount growth in technical and sales roles and for the new leadership that you mentioned what is the things that the new -- that Thomas Kurian can kind of do Cloud to accelerate the next phase of growth in that business. Thank you so much."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So in terms of the investment levels in Other Bets, the major point is that we are investing across Other Bets commencement with what we think is required kind of looking out at the opportunity set for each one. And we go through a regular process with weekly business reviews and quarterly board reviews and try and calibrate the appropriate pace of investment. In terms of the increase this quarter, as I indicated in opening comments, we accrued some comp expenses for a number of bets and that was really to reflect increases in the valuation of equity in certain Other Bets."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"On Cloud, one of the things that was evident towards the end of last year is now our inability to win in a very large customers global 5,000 companies with multiyear contracts. And so that's definitely something we want to focus on. I think Dyne and Thomas have been working closely on a transition with a lot of continuity, and you'll continue to see us. It's very clear to us that our product offerings are ready and differentiated and so we want to invest and scale our go-to-market both in terms of direct sales and our channel partnerships. And maybe you will see us focus more on areas where we\u2019re clearly seeing returns. Be the geographic regions we care about the six main verticals where most of the momentum is. And within product offerings, the five major areas where we\u2019ve clearly defined product with differentiated features to. But I\u2019m excited at the traction we are seeing, we are getting large wins and I look forward to executing here."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Thanks for taking the questions. I just wanted to ask to, first, can you think about the strong Google Sites growth 23%, that\u2019s actually neutral. Can you just help us understand some of the mobile search innovations that you think are really driving things here beyond some of these underlying secular strength, with the particular focus perhaps on the retail channel, and just how you\u2019re thinking about the opportunity there? And then, second, Ruth, just wanted to go back to your comment on OpEx. Just wanted to clarify, were you saying that headcount growth, specifically you think will moderate in '19 or are you talking about overall OpEx spending? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Doug, on the first one, obviously we have thousands of engineers working on continually launching search improvements. I think for me a lot of this has been the clear hard work that's gone into making sure search on mobile works really, really well removing friction where we can constantly working to get the answers, a bit quicker and faster and make -- making the more relevant. So to me it's more a set of a continual innovation mentality that we\u2019ve had there for a long time. And that\u2019s really working at scale."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And then the specific comment I think you\u2019re referencing is I was pointing to headcount growth. We are continuing to hire to support growth opportunities, particularly hiring engineers and product managers in Google and continuing to support growth in Cloud, and what I was just trying to draw out was we will continue to hire, but the year-on-year growth rate will moderate there."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Thank you. Yes, I had a follow-up on to Anthony's questions on cloud. It doesn\u2019t seem like you want to share an update on the revenue run rate. But I was wondering if maybe you can share with us what you\u2019re seeing in terms of year-over-year growth rate, and in particular are they growing faster than what the competitors disclosed in their public results? Because maybe they will help think about the pace of growth in your Cloud business. And then, secondarily I was just wondering if you can give us a sense of the types of workloads, if there's any commonality to the types of workloads, you might be running work frequently than not. Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So, in terms of growth, Cloud does continue to deliver sizable revenue growth driven by GCP and GCP does remain one of the fastest-growing businesses across Alphabet. As Sundar said, we double the number of GCT contracts greater than a 1 million. We are also seeing a really nice uptick in the number of deals that are greater than $100 million and really pleased with the success and penetration there. At this point, not updating further."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Heather, I think maybe specifically a couple of examples, there's definitely we see clear strength in data management and analytics, so we can take specs -- for example, in retail or if you take someone like the Telegraph, those very important factors. Application platforms, so our ability to help customers, deploy cloud native applications has been a differentiator for customers like Unity, Ubisoft, etcetera. And Multi Cloud, ability to run cloud services across Clouds on Prem. In terms out to be very important for global multinational companies like HSBC. So we do see a wide variety of stuff. We are clearly focused on infrastructure being an application platform, data management and smart analytics, and of course with G suite productivity and collaboration. So that's the core areas we are investing in from a product and a go-to-market standpoint. And we are seeing great traction there."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"On a consolidated basis, total cost of revenues including TAC, which I'll discuss in the Google segment results, was $17.9 billion, up 26% year-on-year. Other cost of revenues on a consolidated basis was $10.5 billion, up 34% year-over-year, primarily driven by Google-related expenses."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks for taking my questions. I have two. Just the first one to go back to YouTube in a very strong quarter. It sounds like on branded advertising and now some of these new direct response ads. I was curious, Sundar, as you think about with an innovation focus, what do you see as being one or two of the biggest opportunities to further improve the quality or the efficacy of the ad product, you provide for advertisers on YouTube from here. And then Waymo, got a couple of milestones. But the last 3 to 6 months, maybe talk us through how you see the next one or two big factors that you're really focused on ensuring that Waymo becomes what it could be?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"On YouTube, I still think we are in early days of making sure YouTube is better platform for direct response and TrueView for action is still early. We see great traction, but I think there's a lot more to do and I think we had a set of features which we launched last year to make sure it works better. But I think there's a lot more to do. In the long run, I think for me, YouTube is a place where we see users not only come for entertainment, they come to find information, they\u2019re coming to learn about things. They\u2019re coming to discover, to research and so being able to match that intent over time in a way that we can bring the right value for our users and advertisers. I think there's a long run opportunity. And we're taking all the right foundational steps to realize it."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And in terms of Waymo, as you know well, we are intently focused on safety first and ensuring a great user experience, and that's why we're expanding methodically. We are pleased that we\u2019ve continued to broaden out our service in the Phoenix area and we're focused on expanding both the number of riders in the geographic reach around Phoenix. In addition, we're having conversations with a number of other interested cities and we are continuing to explore applying our technology for logistics and deliveries and for personal use vehicles and for last mile solutions for cities, so continuing to execute as we\u2019ve described previously."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks. Two questions. First, Ruth, could you just provide a little more color on the R&D expense build up. Anything unusual on there? Just comment on the cadence of that? Then, Sundar, on hardware that\u2019s -- it's been a multiyear effort. It seems like it's accelerated. There's a series of these new products we try to do a report on to make sure we understood them. Could you talk about how the strategic and maybe the synergistic impacts that you're seeing of hardware on the rest of Google's business, on the rest of Alphabet's business, and do you think that it's still early days and maybe paint a picture of how significant those synergies could be? Thank you very much."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So starting with R&D, the main driver is our ongoing investment in engineers, in particular, in Google and then as I said the sizable increase in accrued comp for Other Bets and just build that out a bit more, give you a bit more color, in certain Other Bets, employees are compensated through equity-based programs. And that's because we believe that this alignment of interest is valuable. We do assess valuation on an ongoing basis. And at a minimum, we do a formal valuation assessment once every 12 months or when there is a significant event. And what you're seeing in the fourth quarter is the impact of higher valuation in certain Other Bets. And as we've talked about previously, a goal with the Alphabet structure is to enable us to build new businesses that would make a positive impact and create long-term value. And it's still early days we're very excited about the opportunities we see. And so what you're seeing is the impact here of valuation. The way we approach it is very consistent with the way startups are typically valued, and that includes technical progress and a range of other items."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And Mark, on hardware, obviously, we are working hard to offer the best Google experience we can bringing together AI software and hardware. And you are right that it does have a lot of synergistic value, but at the stage where we\u2019re in. The main way we do that today for our core products is by using hardware to drive where the rest of the computing ecosystem is. And so we get a very leveraged effect there. But over time, as we scale up our hardware efforts and do it thoughtfully, so it definitely -- when I look at the kind of experience we can deliver. For example, if you look at something like the Google Home Hub and how it delivers a nice experience across Search, Assistant and YouTube and Photos when you wanted, you can definitely see the glimpse of the future. And so, we are investing to realize that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. Sundar, just picking up on the AI for everyone theme, you\u2019ve been highlighting at I\/O as well as other venues. Are conversations with advertisers suggest that products like smart bidding are becoming a pretty -- increasingly popular tool to add to their bidding strategies. But how has the pickup been among the SMBs, especially among the local advertisers? Do you think you can target that market without a sales force? And secondarily, as we talk of two companies transitioning to a Cloud, there's increased talk of collecting data, dealing with data lakes as well as analyzing all that data to help their decision-making process. So from your standpoint running Google, do you feel like the current technology you have at your disposal is sophisticated enough to keep up with all of the needs for you to run the company as you collect all the data from across the internet? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I think two questions. On your first question around using machine learning to help serve advertisers better and be able to reach newer advertisers, SMBs and local advertisers. I definitely think you highlight an exciting opportunity. Whenever we\u2019ve done work like be it last year or the last couple of years through universal app campaigns or smart shopping campaigns last year, responsive search ads, those are all great examples of where we brought ML. And with that, we made process much easier for advertisers of all sizes and we see an impact. So I think it's a natural extension for us to continue working in that direction, and that will help us reach SMBs and local advertisers better over time. So I do think that's a good opportunity. And on the second part of your question, I want to make sure I understand it. If you\u2019re asking about how we invest in our security as a company, I think it's the foundation of how we do everything for the past 20 years. And we always -- we realize a deep responsibility that coming -- that comes with being stewards of users' data. So everything we design is designed with privacy and security in mind. It's where some of our core investments go, be it securing our data centers, literally the practices we have across the company, the quality and talent in our security teams and over time using AI itself to do all this well. So it's a core part of what we do and we take it very, very seriously."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. Sundar, in your review of some of the shopping products during the fourth quarter, you didn't mention shopping actions. And there were reports there that Walmart decided to leave the program recently and I think there have been some public comments on social media from Googlers confirming that. So I would just love to hear a little bit more about that. But maybe more broadly the traction of shopping actions and, in particular, the price per sale metric that you rolled out with it during the holiday season. And then, Ruth, just a quick one for you, if we could return to your prepared remarks, there were a couple of sort of things to keep in mind that you\u2019re highlighting. One was FX going from a tailwind to a headwind, but just before that you were talking about how new experiences can rollout over time to users. And I just wanted to clarify, were you referencing an experience that\u2019s rolling out currently, or just generally that that is a best practice in general for Google? Thanks"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"On shopping, I think we launched shopping actions around, if I remember, March of last year. And we've definitely seen a strong traction there. I think we've seen roughly a sevenfold increase in merchants in the program since we launched it. And just in Q4, we announced new partnerships with Best Buy, Nike, Sephora as an example. And in terms of Walmart, we have -- Walmart is one of our deepest partners and they remain a strategy partner across multiple businesses for us, including Google Ads and we have efforts underway to work closer together with shopping. But they are definitely a large partner who continue experimenting and we will support them in many ways. But I think, overall, I\u2019m excited about the efforts we are doing in shopping and you will see us focus more there on 2019. We see users come to Google a lot around key shopping moments and we want to make sure we invest in the experience to get closer to what they want."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The key drivers were: first, content acquisition costs, primarily for YouTube, mostly for our advertising supported content in what is a seasonally strong quarter for YouTube, but also for our newer subscription businesses, YouTube Premium and YouTube TV which have higher CAC as a percentage of revenues. Second, costs associated with our data centers and other operations, including depreciation and, third, hardware related costs for our made by Google and Nest family of products."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And then on the second question, we've talked about this on prior calls. We've often talked about the fact that we have been and remain committed to long-term revenue growth through innovation. And the point I was trying to underscore is the timing and scale of the impact. It's inherently difficult to predict. And so it can be inconsistent from quarter-to-quarter. The main point is we remain very excited about the opportunities for users and advertisers, in particular, building off of Sundar's comment as we apply machine learning to solutions."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Thank you. Two quick ones for me. First on Project Stream and YouTube TV. Just wondering how important it will be to invest in original content as well as how you might view the rollout of 5G as catalyzing consumer adoption of these services? And then on the Discover feed, I know that\u2019s still pretty new, but curious if you have any color on usage and engagement to date? And if there's any way you expect to monetize that feed in the near future? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"On Project Stream, being able to deliver gaming with the kind of real-time requirements, the low latency requirements, it's definitely for us -- it's an important computing advance. We think it will help us drive the newer computing platforms we're working on. And I do think, services like that will be a point of inflection as 5G rolls out as well. So I think it is a virtuous cycle. So we are excited. The early feedback our Project Stream experience has been super positive. And so we are looking to build up on that and you will see us do more there in 2019. On Discover, I think traction has been for us, we measure user engagement and satisfaction and happiness on these -- on anything new we do, and the metrics have been really strong. And we obviously -- we offer the best experience today on our products like Pixel, made by Google products. And we are looking to scale that up to reach more users. But we think we\u2019ve a strong product there and I think it's very synergistic to search experience. And so we are looking to bring the best of both to our users, and you'll see us reach more users in 2019."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Thank you. A couple of questions. First, it looks like Google core margins were down about 3 points and what was an easier comp. So just wondering if you can give us any thoughts on how the core advertising business is doing in there? We know there's a lot of investment in Cloud and hardware and YouTube TV, but just would like to get a update on the health of the advertising business margins. And any thoughts on if you ever do segment disclosure. And then the second question is just on the Cloud strategy. There's been a pretty big leadership change. Just wondering if there's any new strategies or new things you will be doing this year with the Cloud related to the management change? And look forward to the Cloud Conference in April. Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks. So, in terms of overall Google margins, I think that the main point you're seeing in the margins as we continue to see tremendous opportunity across Google, and so we're investing to support long-term revenue and earnings growth. We\u2019ve talked a lot in this call already about the importance of machine learning and it is a key component of incremental investment, particularly, in CapEx for technical infrastructure to support the existing -- at the existing businesses, but also the newer ones, and that's kind of flowing through here. We've talked on prior calls that we're very mindful of the fact that CapEx turns into depreciation, which is why I single this out. We are continuing to see tremendous opportunity in the ads business, Search and Ads businesses and beyond machine learning we're further investing to continue to enhance the experience for users and advertisers, and that's across Mobile Desktop and YouTube. So, for example, a big priority in 2018 was expanding the availability of content for what we call the next billion user markets, which are for us a really important area. We are excited about the growth and the opportunity to deliver experiences across markets. We are also investing to enable more visual ways of finding information, such as photos and videos. And then, we are investing aggressively in our newer businesses within Google, particularly, Cloud and Hardware as Sunder has already said. So what you're seeing reflected through in the margins on the cost of revenue side is the impact of the product mix that we\u2019ve talked about, a big part of that is the ongoing strength in YouTube and then on the OpEx side investing in engineers, in particular, for Google as well as on the sales and marketing side, the increased headcount to support not just Ads, but in particular Cloud."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And on the second question on Cloud, I answered it around Anthony and Heather's question, but to add a little bit more color, while -- maybe it's the change in leadership, but it was a well planned transition. And so Diane and Thomas together planned 2019. And the big things you\u2019re going to see are, a continued focus on global 5000 companies. We are definitely seeing traction with large multiyear contracts, multimillion dollar contracts there. So you'll see us focused there. We will continue to invest in and expand our sales and distribution channels to meet customer demand, so that's going to be an important area for 2019. But mostly being highly focused on the 15 countries, 6 industries and the 5 major solution areas that we think will have the most impact and directing most of our resources towards those efforts is probably something you will see continued emphasis in 2019."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Two questions. First, there's a lot of discussion right now about alternatives to Google Play and Apple's App Store for distribution. And some of the large developers are starting to come up with these workarounds around the App Store fees. So, I guess, just philosophically, how do you think about the 30%? Do you think that\u2019s the right long-term rate for Google Play? And then, Ruth, coming back to the headcount and CapEx growth moderating comments, so you have expenses growing well in excess of revenue for some time in the core Google segment, and 2018 was the lowest operating income growth since you started disclosing the segments. So are you just flagging this as a change of direction? Is this a material change or is this just a small amount of moderation in 2019? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"On Google Play, obviously, we do this at scale, thousands of developers rely on it to safely and seamlessly distribute their game to billions of android users worldwide. And we invest a lot in our infrastructure to continuously make sure their overall experience is safe and results in high engagement and for the developer's back. So I think there's a value exchange there and it's been the industry standard. And so, I think we will continue down that path and -- but obviously always adapt to where the market is."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And then in terms of the pace of investments, I\u2019ve already laid out the focus areas and our commitment to continue to invest to support long-term revenue and earnings growth and just wanted to put a fine point on both CapEx and headcount. So on CapEx, as I indicated in opening remarks, we do expect the rate of year-on-year CapEx growth will slow meaningfully. So with the scale of our business and with our focus on user experience, it does require CapEx. We are committed to continue to invest in CapEx to deliver on that. In terms of the mix, we expect to see more of an uptick in 2019 in data center investments relative to servers. But the point which you asked in your question, the year-on-year growth rate will moderate meaningfully. And then, in terms of headcount, we are -- I was just trying to make clear that the growth in headcount will moderate somewhat here just so that there's no interpolation."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks. For Sundar, the cash position has doubled the last five years to $109 billion. Yet in the last four years M&A has been right around $3 billion, which is well below your peers. And I\u2019m just curious that it seems like the core is very strong, but is there hesitation that you\u2019re seeing in terms of valuation or other factors that are playing into that relative to what your peers are doing right now?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Operating expenses were $13.2 billion, up 27% year-over-year. The biggest increase was in R&D expenses, with the larger driver being headcount growth, followed by the accrual of compensation expenses to reflect increases in the valuation of equity in certain Other Bets. Growth in Sales and marketing expenses reflect increases in sales and marketing headcount primarily for Cloud and Ads followed by advertising investments mainly in Search and the Assistant. The growth in G&A expenses reflects mostly increases in headcount."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I think, we\u2019ve always approached M&A as I think really -- we are always evaluating opportunities. We\u2019ve a very high bar, and so to me it's been more about us finding the right fit rather than being constrained by anything in particular. But I do think it's always an important part of our strategy and we've done great acquisitions in the past. Things like YouTube and android were big acquisitions for us. And so we continue to look for opportunities ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And real quick for Ruth, just the magnitude of spend, I think goes back to what probably investors were most surprised by. It sounds like from your perspective you don't really look at the margin structure as having any floor, you\u2019re just looking at this as, as you said there's tremendous long-term opportunity that you need to make these investments now. I think many are just trying to search for a framework in how you think about this investment cycle we are in right now?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So the reason I started by laying out, I think, in response to the question on margins where we're investing and how we look at is, we are very focused on investing to support long-term revenue and earnings growth. We are very mindful of the CapEx impacts on free cash flow and earnings growth. And so we're trying to get it right, over investing, under investing neither of those works for long-term value creation, but we are very mindful of the pace here and trying to lay out work with more specificity, how we are looking at the opportunity set where -- and making trade-offs where we can."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today\u2019s conference. This does conclude the program and you may all disconnect. Everyone have a great day."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah. And on unit deceleration, I think the unit numbers more and more require some interpretation, because it doesn't include the -- some of our fastest growing areas, the things like, as Dave mentioned, subscription services, AWS, advertising, Whole Foods units are not in that number. So we don't focus as much on the number and we direct you more to the supplemental revenue guidance that breaks out the component parts. But in general, we feel good about the growth in the quarter. "},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"During this call, we may discuss certain non-GAAP financial measures. In our press release, slides accompanying this webcast and our filings with the SEC, each of which is posted on our IR website, you will find additional disclosures regarding these non-GAAP measures, including reconciliations of these measures with comparable GAAP measures."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our guidance incorporates the order trends that we've seen to date and what we believe today to be appropriate assumptions. Our results are inherently unpredictable and maybe materially affected by many factors, including fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, changes in global economic conditions and customer spending, world events, the rate of growth of the Internet, online commerce and cloud services, and the various factors detailed in our filings with the SEC."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our guidance also assumes, among other things, that we don't conclude any additional business acquisitions, investments, restructurings or legal settlements. It's not possible to accurately predict demand for our goods and services, and therefore, our actual results could differ materially from our guidance."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Thank you. I guess I'll ask about units, 14% in the quarter, just, how do you feel about the overall unit growth here, given that the growth was higher last year in the 20s and do you think there are some investments you can make in other areas to kind of reaccelerate that going forward?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yeah. Hey, Justin, this is Dave. Just on the second question on the subscription services, we\u2019d said on the last call, you probably remember, related to the adoption of the accounting standards update and revenue recognition policies that was impacting our results in a number of areas in 2018. We\u2019d said we'd anticipated about 300 million lower sort of headwind to subscription services revenue due to the accounting change. So that's where we came out for the quarter. So you'll see that, we reported subscription services revenue increased 26% when you exclude FX. So the 300 million is certainly part of that decelerate -- the sequential deceleration in the growth rate in that line item."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Secondly, could you talk about advertising revenue, just qualitatively or quantitatively, how that's doing? And third, if I could, you spent a lot on marketing in the quarter, it's a real step up. Do you just want to talk about the ROI that you think you're getting on that marketing spend?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Thank you. I just wanted to follow up on India, just bigger picture, Brian, do the new policies change your view at all of the attractiveness or the potential of operating in India and how do you think about your investment strategy there in the near term? And then also just hoping you could talk about some of the impact in the US and UK from free shipping during the fourth quarter holidays?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah. Really, we're still evaluating the situation in India. We feel very good about the long term prospects in India and doing a good job for both Indian customers and Indian sellers. The new regulations need to be interpreted, need to be -- need to make sure they don't have unintended consequences. And again, I don't think it's necessarily consistent with better price, better selection and better convenience for the Indian customer. So it's not all we can say on that topic right now."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah. And I think Doug, your second point was just around shipping, some of the shipping offers in the holiday. We did lower the free shipping threshold ahead in to the fourth quarter, so customers took advantage of that and that was a great offer for them in the holidays. Brian talked a little bit about it before, but pleased with the holiday season, both from sort of a first party side, but also sellers continuing to do well. As part of the holiday offering, we sold a number of record breaking number of Alexa devices as well and I think just in that shipping vein, really pleased with the continued engagement from Prime members, we had the most ever number of Prime members sign up this quarter than any quarter we've had. So really pleased with that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Mark May with Citi."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We think it was a, Q4 in particular was a great quarter for customers that retail, there is a lot of strength in the retail part of the businesses, the teams here had done a great job, planning, preparing and then executing on the quarter. AWS maintained a very strong growth rate and continued to deliver for customers. We had a great Reinvent Conference in the quarter. So we feel good about the growth in the quarter and also the total revenue and income."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. When I try to back out the impact factors like Whole Foods, the advertising accounting change and other factors, what I see is stable and pretty healthy revenue growth for the retail segment, but a slowdown in Q4 from what seems to have been, in more recent quarters, meaningful gross margin expansion in the retail segment. Can you discuss what may have driven that and how to think about retail gross margins going forward?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And then somewhat separately, retail margins last year benefited from several factors, including more modest hiring and more modest growth in fulfillment center capacity, do you see these factors persisting this year? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah. Thank you. Let me start with that last part, because I think if we step back and put 2018 in perspective, there are some clear trends regarding our cost structure. Starting with fulfillment costs, so in the prior two years, 2016, and 2017, we had grown our square footage tied to fulfilment and shipping by greater than 30%. In 2018, that number grew by 15%. Certainly, unit demand was lower, but AFN or Amazon Fulfilled demand were, we\u2019ve combined FBA and retail, remained strong. So we had a banking, if you will, of some large expansions in the prior two years. Similarly on headcount, we grew headcount by 48% in 2016, 38% in 2017, if you exclude the acquisitions of Whole Foods and Souq, which drove the number up to closer to 68% I believe. Last year, we were at 14% growth. And so, there was a lot of leverage and a lot of, in a way, there was a lot of pre hiring in 2017 that we digested in 2018, while we still continue, in some areas, especially things like our core retail business and also G&A functions, but then we continue to invest again in the technology tied to AWS sales team to an AWS device area. So their groups are growing considerably higher than that 14%, but on total, the company grew 14%."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And then on capital, especially infrastructure capital, if you use the capital lease slide as maybe an indicator for what we have invested into our AWS business to support infrastructure and global expansion, that number grew 10% last year, when it had grown 69% in 2017. So in a lot of ways, 2018 was about banking the efficiencies of investments in people, warehouses, infrastructure that we had put in place in 2016 and \u201917. So while we'll continue to concurrently drive growth and customer offering and Prime benefits, we certainly do take costs seriously and we will continue to work on operational efficiencies. I would expect these investments to increase relative to 2018 and we've reflected what we see so far in Q1 in our guidance."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Heath Terry with Goldman Sachs."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Great. Thank you. A little bit -- to dig a little bit deeper into the CapEx capital lease side of things, you guys have said in the past that generally you work to build in line with your expectations for guidance, so that you are trying not to over build or under build when thinking about your fulfilment in data center capacity. We saw that investment re-accelerate in the fourth quarter, after hitting the lows that you referenced in Q3. Anything to read into that about sort of what your expectations are for growth in those businesses, seeing that reacceleration after the deceleration that we saw over the course of at least the first three quarters of last year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yeah. I see total CapEx that was -- grew 33% in Q1, 1% in Q2, negative 1% in Q3 and then positive 17% in Q4, just the quarter itself. So there was, as you say, a bit of investment in Q4 relative to Q2 and Q3. I still think the 17% is a low number for us, when you talk about the -- supporting the AWS business that's still growing in a very high clip and a very strong and healthy growth in FBA and customer demand and our expansion into new countries, both with AWS and also with our core consumer business. So I am not prepared to give you the forecast for the year right now. I would say that, I would consider 2018 to be a lighter investment year and the lighter year for adding fixed headcount certainly compared to 2016 and 2017 we'll reveal that as we go through the year, but we've built into the first quarter what we expect in the first three months."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from the line of Brian Nowak with Morgan Stanley."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks for taking my questions. I have two. Just -- the first one is to go back to the fourth quarter gross margins. I think if we try to back out AWS, it looks like there was a little more gross margin pressure. Can you just talk to any of the puts and takes we should know about from a gross margin perspective in the fourth quarter and then that other line that I think includes the advertising business, can you just help us, any help at all on the growth of the advertising business or the impact of any of the accounting changes in the quarter? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. Sure. I\u2019m sorry I skipped over that gross margin question earlier, but yeah, gross margins were well up 180 basis points year-over-year, were not up as much as prior quarters. I would say the positive tailwinds still remain, AWS has strong growth of 46% on an FX neutral basis. Third party units continue to grow, advertising dollars continue to grow very well. Some of the headwinds, I would say, were outbound shipping cost, including the free shipping that we did, but mostly, it was the higher Amazon fulfilled units and the greater use of Amazon logistics. And I would also say retail was very strong."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Sure, Mark. The first question is on India. Let me start with that. So we have incorporated into our guidance estimate, the best estimate we have for Q1 in India, however, there is much uncertainty as to what the impact of the government rule change is going to have on the e-commerce sector there. We remain committed to complying with all laws and regulations, we will, but we're evaluating the situation. Our main issue and our main concern is trying to minimize the impact to our customers and sellers in India. We've built our business around price selection and convenience. We don't think the changes help in those dimensions for both the customers in India and also the sellers."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We had a, as I think Dave mentioned, the Echo Dot was the highest selling unit globally, so devices had very strong sales in the quarter. We discussed how we don't price devices to make money. We usually will expand our content, expanding our device and usage. There are a group of customers who use our devices and then we monetize that in different ways to commitment to Amazon and the video and everything else. So a bit of it was mix, but I would say this retail, which has a lower gross margin more because of the revenue treatment was stronger in Q4."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yeah. And just on the other revenue piece, Brian, just to get back to the accounting side. We did adopt that revenue recognition standard in 2018 as I mentioned. As part of the adoption, certain advertising services were classified as revenue rather than a reduction of cost of sales. So specific to Q4, the impact of that change was an increase of approximately $1 billion to other revenue, so you will see that in the other revenue in total"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Colin Sebastian with Robert W. Baird."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks. I guess two for me as well. In the quarter, looking backwards, not considering India and the impact going forward, but the international growth accelerated, so I was curious any particular regions or product categories to call out, especially given some of the weakness in the UK? And then marketplace fees are changing in several categories, including Home Furnishings, health and beauty, curious what the strategy is there, I assume to expand selection, but is it also an indication of an increasing focus on those retail categories? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sure. Let me start with your second question. Obviously, third party sellers are an important part of our value proposition there. They\u2019ve had great success on our site, the -- more than half of our units sold are from third party sellers. So it's very important to us that we have the right business profile, both for Amazon and for the sellers. So we will always be evolving that, part of that involves changing fee structures, sometimes, adding new fees or subtracting old ones, part of it involves raising or lowering fees that sellers pay. So you're going to see this continually from us. We generally work to change the fees to make sure that the incentives are strong on both sides and we continue to have a healthy growth in third party."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"On the international, on an FX neutral basis, the growth was 15% in Q3 and 19% in Q4. But last call, if you remember, I talked about the timing of Diwali and the impact that had on our growth rates. If we adjust for that and again Diwali had, took place primarily in Q4 this year and it was split between Q3 and Q4 last year. If we adjust for that, international growth is pretty flat Q3 to Q4."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Lloyd Walmsley with Deutsche Bank."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks. Two if I can. First, just on the advertising side, we hear a lot of positive feedback from customers, but also we hear suggestions of their supply constraints. So, how do you guys see inventory growth versus pricing growth as a driver in that business and are there things you can do to grow inventory?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And then secondly, there have been some reports, your Amazon shipping effort is kind of expanding beyond some test markets. So wondering if you can give us a sense for what you've seen in this test markets and how you think about expanding your shipping efforts on that productized basis going forward? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":" Yeah. Lloyd, thanks for the questions. I'll take the advertising piece first. I mean, I think as I talked before, we're working on the improving usability of tools. I mean, our priorities in the space, that's certainly one of them looking for ways to make smarter recommendations, addressing the needs of brands, automating activities, incenting new products and I think in all those regards in those priorities, we think there's some good growth to continue to come both in advertising for on our own properties, but also potentially beyond, over the longer term, so, but even as we look for advertising opportunities on places like Amazon.com, we think there's a lot of opportunity and a lot of experimentation. I think we're learning and are a very data interested company and working with a lot of great brands to be able to develop better toolkits for them, understand what types of metrics they want to make them more successful based on what they're telling us."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah, yeah. I think I mean, we're continuing to -- there's a lot of focus on serving that customer set. One of the things we're trying to do is continually evolve our tools and the products to help that customer set agencies, advertisers, make sure they've got a variety of ways to meet their goals. Some of the things we've done more recently over the last few months or so is expanded sponsor brands, placements, some rolled out new campaign reports, so improved campaign manager features. So a number of -- there's a number of things beyond that, but features out there that are just going to, I think, make it easier for companies to grow with the ad tools and the ad services that we offer and we're continually excited about the opportunity there."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":" Yeah. And on transportation, I assume you're just talking about our expansion of Amazon deliveries and Amazon logistics. Again, we have great partners in place for our business and support globally, what we do is add capacity where we feel we need to speed up service or ensure demand, particularly at peak. So we will continue to build out our DSP and flex and chip with Amazon programs. So during the quarter, it was a much bigger presence obviously year-over-year, so we're happy with that, both from a performance standpoint, the delivery estimate accuracy as we call it was very strong on our self-delivered products and also the cost profile is very good as well."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":" Our next question comes from the line of Eric Sheridan with UBS."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":" Thanks for taking the question. Maybe two if I can. One on the media side, has there been any step-up in terms of investments around media content to support your ambition with respect to Prime and the video. It's been a couple of years now since we got an update on rate of spend or how it might impact either historical periods or going forward periods, that would be number one.And then number two, going back to Lloyd's question on the advertising front, how do you think about the video opportunity, you're moving beyond just branded opportunities or sponsored products search on your own properties and thinking about experimenting with over the top video or connected TV opportunities [indiscernible] going forward. Thanks so much."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":" Yeah. Let me start with video. We're not quantifying the Prime video spend today, but we do \u2013 it has been increasing. We expect it to increase even further in 2019. We're seeing a lot of again continued strong adoption and the usage and viewing and hours watched of our -- both our music and our seasoned video and music. And as a step back, it builds stronger Prime connectivity with our Prime members, at least, the higher membership renewal rates and higher overall engagement. And as we like, we see -- we continue to see that engagement growing. I would say that we've had some particular success in -- recently with 10 Golden Globe nominations and 3 Oscar nominations and Jack Ryan homecoming in season two of the [indiscernible] in particular, were very well received during the quarter."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":" Yeah. And then on your second question, just around advertising opportunities and around video, you may have seen it not that long ago, IMDB or Internet Movie Database, one of our subsidiaries, launched FreeDive, which is an ad supported free streaming video channel that's available in the US and it enables customers to watch TV shows and movies without purchasing a subscription. So ad supported, so that's available on the IMDB website with your laptop or personal computer on. I think it's definitely on the Fire TV devices as well is a great way to consume content.So I think excited about that, other opportunities we've been working with in ads, video for a bit longer period of time have been things like our sports offering, some of the live sports that we've done, things like Thursday Night Football, really like the success that we've seen on those and been learning from that and looking forward to pursuing more opportunities to engage and serve with customers with those types of video offers, but also take some opportunity to monetize with the advertising."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":" Our next question comes from the line of Jason Helfstein with Oppenheimer."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":" Thanks. Just two, so just can you comment, did advertising slow down relative to third quarter. One, you kind of adjusting for 606 and then secondly, was there any reallocation in segments between online and physical stores and if not any commentary why physical stores was down year-over-year? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":" Yeah. Thanks, Jason for your questions. Let me start with the physical stores revenues. So physical stores decreased 3% year-over-year and this is primarily Whole Foods, but also includes our other stores, the Amazon Books stores, Amazon Go, Amazon 4 star. What happened in the quarter was we were lapping a period last year when we \u2013 we had purchased Whole Foods in Q3, as you remember of 2017. In Q4, we adjusted their fiscal calendar to link it up with Amazon\u2019s and it added about 5 days of revenue into Q4 of last year. So we\u2019re comping that year-over-year.The second piece is that, the \u2013 as you said, the online orders where people go to the Prime Now app and then order for delivery or pick up at Whole Foods stores does count or is counted in the online stores component of revenues. So if you adjust for those, with the Whole Foods growth year-over-year on an apples-to-apples basis was approximately 6%. Because of some of those, again, mostly the year-over-year accounting days, true up issue, it\u2019s showing up as negative 3% in physical stores."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yeah. And then just on your second question around advertising, if you look at the other revenue, the growth rate decelerated some. So it\u2019s at 97%, still very strong, year-over-year growth in the fourth quarter in other revenue as I think you\u2019re aware, there are a number of components, but the largest by a good margin is the advertising revenue and we are comping a period of rapid growth in the prior year, so that is part of the factor there as you mentioned, but I\u2019d just reiterate, we\u2019re continuing to see quite strong adoption across Amazon\u2019s vendors, sellers, authors, all types of advertisers that are utilizing that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Good afternoon, everyone. Brian, can we just return to your comment earlier about the increased use of Amazon logistics, not a surprise there, but just curious through the holiday season, any particular learnings that you can offer some color on and how you view the balance between using your own proprietary logistics versus third parties as you go into 2019?.And then just a quick follow-up, obviously the HQ2 news came out during the quarter, what would you highlight as maybe the most important next steps there and maybe some color on the feedback from that process, I would be interested to hear that as well? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And then on your question of marketing, yes, the marketing percent of revenue was up 110 basis points year-over-year. This category also includes AWS sales and marketing and keep that in mind, because that's where a lot of our headcount investment is going. Headcount only grew 14% year-over-year, but the areas that were growing in that mix were things like technology teams, device areas, AWS, especially sales and marketing. So variable marketing was pretty consistent with prior periods and we feel good about our return on investment on the marketing, the variable marketing."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":" Yes, sure. So let\u2019s start with HQ2. Of course, in November, we announce we selected New York City and Northern Virginia and between the two cities, we will be investing $5 billion and creating more than 50000 jobs. We also announced a Operations Center of Excellence to be opened up in Nashville, which is about \u2013 estimated to be about 5000 jobs. So right now, we\u2019re working through some next issues in both cities. We\u2019re looking forward to investing in New York and Northern Virginia and being a good community partner as well as Nashville. So not really much else to report at this time on that.On your comment or question on transportation, we do continue to expand our Amazon logistics and delivery capability and it also matches up with our faster ship speed that we\u2019re seeing for Prime members as well. We added, of course, we have over 100 million items that customers would get within two days, but there\u2019s now over 3 million that will be delivered within one day or faster in 10,000 cities in town. So Amazon deliveries are a big part of that. Again, we have great third party partners as well in the transportation space. What we like about our ability to participate in transportation is that a lot of times, we can do it at the same cost or better and we like the cost profile of the two.We can also invest selectively because we have more perfect information we know where our demand is, we know where we\u2019re moving things between warehouses and sort centers and by not involving third parties all the time, we can find that we can extend our ship cut offs, or excuse me, our order cutoffs and we\u2019ve done that over the last few years. So that\u2019s also another helpful side benefit for consumers when we are doing our own logistics, excuse me, transportation final delivery."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you.Our final question comes from the line of Ross Sandler with Barclays."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":" So the AWS operating margins historically kind of move around a bit. Any color on what drove the decline sequentially from 3Q to 4Q? And then I guess going back to the investment catch up theme, it sounds like 2019 will be a little bit more aggressive push from you guys. Can you parse out whether you expect the pace of retail margin expansion that we\u2019re seeing in North America right now, is that going to continue and most of these investments are going to be in international and some of the stuff going on in India and any color on the North America operating margin trajectory? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah. Sure. Let me start with the AWS operating margin, as you called it out. That number will move around, we\u2019re very pleased with the 29.3% that we saw during the quarter. Of course, at any point in time, this business is going to be a combination of lowering prices, expanding geographically, adding people to build, especially tech teams and sales teams to build new and innovative products and staying very relevant and ahead of our customers\u2019 minds. And infrastructure, well again, it will balance between quarters a bit.Our capital lease expenditure in Q4 was a bit higher than the prior three quarters. That had slight impact on the operating margin, but again year-over-year, operating margins were up and were almost 280 basis points. We\u2019ve said quite openly that this is going to bounce around. What we do is to create great value for the customer on one end and then work to minimize our cost of infrastructure and we\u2019re getting more and more creative around getting efficiency up and getting our cost of acquisition down."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":" Thanks for joining us on the call today and for your questions. A replay will be available on our Investor Relations site at least through the end of the quarter. We appreciate your interest in Amazon and look forward to talking with you again next quarter."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you for standing by. Good day, everyone, and welcome to the Amazon.com Q4 2018 Financial Results Teleconference. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Today's call is being recorded."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"For opening remarks, I will be turning the call over to the Director of Investor Relations, Dave Fildes. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hello, and welcome to our Q4 2018 financial results conference call. Joining us today to answer your questions is Brian Olsavsky, our CFO. As you listen to today's conference call, we encourage you to have our press release in front of you, which includes our financial results as well as metrics and commentary on the quarter. Please note, unless otherwise stated, all comparisons in this call will be against our results for the comparable period of 2017."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our comments and responses to your questions reflect management's views as of today, January 31, 2019 only, and will include forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially. Additional information about factors that could potentially impact our financial results is included in today's press release and our filings with the SEC, including our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and subsequent filings."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you. Good afternoon, and welcome to Facebook's Fourth Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. Joining me today to discuss our results are Mark Zuckerberg, CEO; Sheryl Sandberg, COO; and Dave Wehner, CFO."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So first, continue making progress on the major social issues. The most important work here is to keep executing our road map to build systems that can proactively identify harmful content so we can act on it sooner. We just finished a year of very heavy investment to get these systems to a better place, and we've seen the results of that in recent elections, including the U.S. midterms and in our transparency reports, where we report what percent of violating content we identified proactively. We ended 2018 with more than 30,000 people working on safety and security, up from 10,000 people a couple of years ago. And this work will never be finished, but I now believe we've built some of the most advanced systems in the world for dealing with these issues."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Lloyd Walmsley"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Two if I can. First, Mark, it sounds like there's really a clear shift this year to more aggressive core product development. You talked about a lot of areas across Instagram commerce, Messaging, Payments in WhatsApp and many more. I guess, are there any that you would point out that could be a material contributor to revenue over the next 2 to 3 years and if - I guess, if there's, yes, any you would call out? And then, secondly, when you look at the Stories ad in adoption, is there any difference you're seeing between the more sophisticated advertisers and smaller advertisers either in terms of adoption or performance? And do you see any inhibitions to long-term success among smaller advertisers with the format? Or do you think they can compete effectively in the creative side?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Wehner"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Lloyd, I'll take - it's Dave. I'll take the first one in terms of material contributors to revenue. Look, I think on a lot of those fronts, it's very early. I'd say commerce broadly and e-commerce is an important vertical for our advertising business. So our success in building - continuing to build good advertising products for our e-commerce clients on the advertising side will be a more important contributor to revenue in the foreseeable future than the new area. So that's what I would focus on. I think those are still very small and we're very early in those being anything from a contribution point of view on revenue. And then I think you had a question on the Stories ad. I think Sheryl will take that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sheryl Sandberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, I can take that. So at 2 million advertisers in Stories, we're obviously seeing broad adoption and that means you have both. You have large advertisers and small advertisers. It's definitely the case that sometimes small advertisers or medium-sized advertisers can sometimes move the fastest. But one of the things we're most proud of, and Mark talked about it in his remarks as well, is that we take tools that were previously only available to large companies and make them available to small companies. And one of the things we've learned over the years is that the easier we make it for our advertisers, whether they're really big or really small, the more they'll adopt. So what - with the work we've done to \"We'll take your pictures, we'll take your post and we'll create the story for you,\" we do automatic placements, I think that makes it easier. And I'll share one specific example of a medium-sized company. Cetaphil is a skin care brand. They ran video ads across IG - Instagram Stories, Instagram feed and Facebook, targeted to Canadian women aged 25 to 54, and they were measuring all the way through to sales and they saw almost a 7%, so 6.9% lift in store sales. So what we want to do is get marketers to use our tools, use the technology we have to do automatic placements, show people things they're interested in, so ads are a good experience, but really help them ring the cash registers so that they know their dollars or their pound or their euro are well spent, and that's what we're pushing to do."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark Zuckerberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And I'll add one thing, which I think David has said this a couple of times, but I think it's worth emphasizing that while I'm excited about the road map that we have and it's going to be great over the long term, the growth of the business over the next year, a few quarters or the near term is going to be mostly based on the growth of Stories and the core News Feed work. And Stories is - we have a lot of work still to go there to make it - monetize at the same levels as News Feed. And I'm confident that we're going to get there, but I want to make sure that we're giving the right outlook on how we expect the near future to go."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Mark May from Citi."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Now however, this raises a broader set of values questions about how to use these systems. One question is about who decides what speech is acceptable and what isn't. Right now, we have a deliberative process of consulting with experts around the world. But I've increasingly come to believe that we shouldn't be making so many of these decisions about content ourselves. In November, I wrote a note about a blueprint for a system of content governance and enforcement, which includes giving people the ability to appeal our internal content decisions to an independent body, and we're currently working with experts to design the system and we plan to start piloting it this half."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark May"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"First, regarding Stories again. Given the size of the WhatsApp audience and the amount of status posts on that platform, just curious about your early learnings from testing status ads on WhatsApp and how optimistic are you that, that will become an interesting and meaningful opportunity going forward. And in terms of Stories on Facebook, from what we can gather, Stories consumption and impression volume on the core Facebook ad seems to maybe not be scaling as fast as some of it and maybe even that some of your comments last year suggested that, that in - if, in fact, that's true, do you - why do you think that, that is? And does that actually pose any sort of issue to your long-term growth plans for Stories, at least on that platform?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sheryl Sandberg"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. So WhatsApp, we don't have ads in Stories. It's not available. Ads are something that's more of a future thing for WhatsApp. We remain very focused on the consumer experience there. We do have the WhatsApp Business app, which is helping businesses connect with consumers, and that's growing well but that monetization opportunity is not available."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Wehner"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. And Stories on Facebook, clearly, Stories is a big success on Instagram. From an impression growth perspective, we're pleased with what we're seeing there, and we're optimistic on our ability to grow Stories on Facebook but it's much earlier on the Facebook platform. So we have to just continue to work to build that format on Facebook."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark Zuckerberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. And just to add quickly, I mean, Stories on Facebook is growing quickly. I think we're going to get to where we need to get to there. We started a little bit later, and some of the early execution, I think, wasn't as good as it needed to be. But I think we're doing good work there now and it's growing quite quickly. So I'm confident about where we're going to be there."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Ross Sandler from Barclays."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Another important issue is the future of privacy and encryption. People really value the privacy that encrypted messaging brings and we've built the most secure global messaging service in the world. As people increasingly share more privately, we're working on making more of our products end-to-end encrypted by default and making more of our products ephemeral so your information doesn't stick around forever. And I'll discuss this more over the coming quarters."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Ross Sandler"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I guess, a question on Messenger. Any learnings from the monetization efforts at Messenger? You've got inbox ads that you've done. You just mentioned Stories ads are starting to enter Messenger. So I guess, what are you seeing there? And what are you most excited about as far as monetizing Messenger? And I guess, what might be applicable at some point in the future to WhatsApp? And then, Mark, you mentioned Payments in WhatsApp. We know that you guys have been working on that for a little while in the background, but any thoughts on how that's going to play out in terms of what geographic markets that might be available? And then - and kind of what do you see as the future opportunity in Payments?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sheryl Sandberg"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our approach to monetization anywhere is always very cautious and we are very - moving very slowly on Messenger, where we remain primarily focused on consumer growth and engagement. Our real focus has been on the organic connections between businesses and consumers, where this is a really strong channel for customer service. We now have 10 billion messages being sent between people and businesses every month. And of course, that includes automated messages as well. We continue to make progress with monetization. We're starting to roll out Stories ads, but it is very early days and we think it will be a long road ahead. It's also probably worth noting that the experiences we had to date, moving from Facebook to Instagram, were more similar, that the Instagram feed is similar to the Facebook feed in terms of what you can do with advertising. And so Messenger and messaging services, if Stories is one click different from that, that's a few clicks different than that. So we're going to have some real work to do."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Colin Sebastian from Robert W. Baird."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Colin Sebastian"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark, you mentioned Facebook Groups as one part of the community effort. And I wonder if you could expand on how you see Groups gaining a higher profile and how that extends to other apps potentially? And then, secondly, listening to the descriptions of the convergence of features and usage across the apps, such as in Stories and messages, I wonder how we should think about how that could impact usage and engagement if people are also converging their own use into 1 or 2 apps instead of the broad suite if that's something that we should keep an eye on."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark Zuckerberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"All right. So for Groups, the main thing that we're focused on is making it so that connecting with communities of people that you're interested in is going to be as central to the experience as connecting with friends and family. So it's not just a feature. It's going to become more of an organizing principle for more of the activity in the app. And friends and family is always going to be really central to what we do, but we just think that there's an opportunity now to do more and to make it so that people can also be a part of these meaningful communities. Hundreds of millions of people already tell us that the groups that they're a part of on Facebook or at least a few meaningful ones are the most important part of their social experience. There's a lot of data, sociological data outside, that shows that a physical group membership in the world off the Internet has been declining for decades. So I think that building groups is - it obviously cannot replace people getting together in person, and a lot of the most successful groups are successful because they facilitate people going and doing things together in person as well. But we think that this is a real human need and a sociological need and it's an important thing that people need to do. And I think it's going to be one of the next big areas that I'm really excited about the Facebook uptick. It's worth pointing out here that while Instagram doesn't have Groups, we also really focus on community and interest there, more around discovery and hashtags and explore, being able to really delve into your interests and interact with people who are interested in the same things that you are there, even if they're not your friends. So that's going to be an increasing part of that experience too. I think there might have been another question but I - no? All right."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our second priority for 2019 is that as we make progress on these social issues, we also need to deliver new experiences that meaningfully improve people's lives. Now, I'm not talking about the many day-to-day iterative improvements we make so that ranking gets a bit better or that things get a little faster, but I'm talking about major improvements to people's lives that whole communities recognize and say, \"Wow, we're all doing something new on Facebook or on WhatsApp that we weren't doing before.\" The last experience like this was Stories, which continues to grow very quickly. For example, Instagram just passed 500 million daily actives on Stories. But the reality is, we've put most of our energy into security over the past 18 months, so that building new experiences wasn't the priority over that period. So this year, I think we're going to deliver several of these new experiences."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Rich Greenfield from BTIG."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Richard Greenfield"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"If I think about kind of the San Francisco Valley kind of elitist community and even, I think, a good chunk of Wall Street, there's been this kind of ongoing narrative that nobody uses core Facebook blue anymore and really, time spent is all about Instagram. Your DAU numbers obviously give a good sense that people are touching Facebook still, core Facebook on a regular basis, but we don't really get any sense of engagement with Facebook versus your other apps. Is there anything you can do to give us some color or sense? I mean, you've talked about Marketplace before on the call, but any way of getting a sense of actual usage trends and what you're seeing in terms of core Facebook versus Instagram versus the communications apps, et cetera?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Wehner"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Rich, it's Dave. Look, I think the DAU trends that we're giving really do paint the picture broadly, which is stability in the developed markets, growth for Facebook blue in the developing markets. We're not giving an update on time spent. That's not our major focus. We pivoted to focus on meaningful social interactions and we've been pleased with the results of that effort broadly, but I think that DAU trends tell the story broadly."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your last question comes from the line of John Blackledge from Cowen."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"John Blackledge"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"For Mark, just curious if you're happy with the progress around the safety and security initiatives. And going forward, is there any kind of recurring metric or anything you can disclose to show progress that you guys might see internally but Facebook users and other constituents maybe don't see? And then just a quick one on pricing on Instagram Stories. Should we expect to see the pricing gap close between feed and Stories over the course of 2019?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Messaging is an area that's growing the most quickly. And this year, people are going to feel these apps becoming the center of their social experience in more ways. We're going to roll out Payments on WhatsApp in some more countries. Private sharing in Groups and Stories will become more central to the experience. We're going to onboard millions of more businesses that people can interact with."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Wehner"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"John, I can real quickly take the pricing question first. The reality is pricing is a function of supply and demand and how demand grows versus supply. So while I do expect that we'll bring more advertisers to Stories and we'll bring more advertising formats to Stories and that will create more demand for Stories, we're also growing Stories inventory quickly. So those two things will balance out in price. Feed from a growth perspective on an impression front is more constrained given where we are with ad loads on Facebook and Instagram. So there'll be more pricing pressure there because there's already strong demand for feed products. So in terms of convergence, it's hard to say how those things will play out. We do think there's opportunities to improve the value of the Stories format that will translate into better price for Stories. But how it converges over time, there's a lot of different dynamics there."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark Zuckerberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. And on all the content and safety and security issues, there's more to do here but I'm proud of the work that we've done to get in front of a lot more of these issues. If you think about the journey that the company has really been on for the last couple of years, it's moving from reactively dealing with issues that our community flags. Perhaps if someone sees some content that's problematic, they used to tell us about it and then we'd go look at it to now, increasingly, we're building AI systems and we have tens of thousands of people who are doing more proactive review of content that could be potentially problematic. And we're prioritizing the different types of content that we think could create the most harm. So one of the things that we worked on earliest was removing terrorist propaganda. One of the things that we're proud of there is, there are now 99% of the ISIS and Al Qaeda content that we take down, our AI flags it, removes it before people see it. Another area that we really care about that's deeply important is self-harm, right? And that's an area where the goal isn't to take down the content, but if we see an area where - if we see something that a person might be thinking about hurting themselves, we now have thousands of people and technical tools that can flag this content to those people to - so we can actually go get first responders to go reach out to people."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And I think in the last six months or a year alone, there have been hundreds, if not thousands, of cases where we're we've been able to get first responders to people when they needed help because of this approach of being more proactive on looking at the content. The same goes for things around election interference and more proactively looking for inauthentic behavior. And we've taken down a lot of effort by different nation states to harm or interfere in elections that way. So we're just going to go down the list of every basic type of bad content. And we do report this publicly, going back to your question. We issue a transparency report. It's our content enforcement report. Right now, we're doing it, I think it's every six months, but the goal is to get that to the cadence by, I think it's the end of this year, we're going to be doing it quarterly and doing calls to discuss the results just like we do for earnings because we think that this stuff is really important as well, at the same level there."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So where I come to summarize where I think we are, coming into 2019 is, 2017 and 2018 were really - we had a lot of hard work to do, but we also needed to figure out what the road map was going to be going forward. And while we haven't solved all of the issues yet - you never solve all of the issues, but we certainly have a lot more to do on our road map. The way that I feel starting 2019 is that we have clear road maps for what we need to go do. And I think you're going to be able to look at these transparency reports as we issue them and see that we're continually making more progress, finding more of the content proactively, taking - getting better at taking it down, getting better at not distributing stuff that's borderline. And that's just some of the most important work that we're doing. It's also the first priority again for this year, is making - continuing to make progress on the big, substantive issues facing the Internet and our company because there's still a lot more to do here, and this is incredibly important. But I do feel like we've started to turn a corner and have a clear plan for what we need to do here now. So thanks for that question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Deborah Crawford"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Thank you. Thank you for joining us today. We appreciate your time and we look forward to speaking with you again."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference call. Thank you for joining us. You may now disconnect your lines."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In Facebook, the way people experience groups and communities will continue to deepen. We're going to get to a point soon where people feel like Facebook is about as communities as it - is about communities as much as it's about your friends and family where almost everyone is in a group that's meaningful to them and that community is a central part of their experience. On Facebook, I also expect this to be the year where Watch becomes more mainstream. There are now 400 million people who use it every month, and people, on average, spend over 20 minutes on Watch daily. This means we're finding ways for video to grow outside of News Feed so it doesn't displace the social interactions that people primarily come to our services for."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In Instagram, one of the areas I'm most excited about this year is commerce and shopping. There's a lot of natural activity happening here. And this year, I expect us to deliver some qualitatively new experiences around that. Longer term, I remain very focused on building technology that brings people together in new ways, including through AR and VR. I'm looking forward to Oculus Quest shipping this spring. The feedback there so far has been very positive. And I've also been positively surprised that Portal has done better than I expected it to. I love using it with my own family. But we never shipped Facebook-branded hardware before and a lot of people said this would be a difficult time to start. So I'm pleased that so many people are enjoying this experience of being able to feel closer to the people they care about even when they're physically far apart."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our third priority is to continue strong execution on our business. In the past couple of years, a lot of our business challenges have been self-imposed. The reality is that we've had a number of substantive issues that we needed to address, and the investments we made in safety, security, privacy and well-being both increased our costs and, in some cases, reduced our revenues. But as I said at the time, I believe that these investments are the right thing to do and will make our community and our business stronger over the long term. And what we've seen is that the fundamentals of the business remain strong. More than 90 million small businesses now use our products, the vast majority of them for free. And of those we surveyed, half tell us that they've been able to grow their businesses and hire more people since joining Facebook. This means they're using our services to create millions of jobs, and this is one of the most important contributions that we feel we can make to the world. And to put this in perspective, the U.S. economy added about 2.6 million jobs last year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our last priority is to get out there more and make the case for the role our services play in the world. Right now, there's a lot of negativity about the impact of technology, and some of it's fair and some of it's misplaced. And we, in the tech industry overall, should be scrutinized heavily because we play a role in many people's lives. My approach here is to listen to the critique first, to work on addressing our issues, figure out what we believe are the most important principles to uphold and then go engage in the debate. And I feel like we've come out of 2018 not only making real progress on important issues but having a clear sense of what we believe are the right ways to move forward. Now, we're still going to make mistakes along the way, but we now have a clearer sense of the path ahead and we're ready to work with people to understand our role and move towards good outcomes, whether that's regulation on content or data, cooperation on shared threats, working openly to make sure AI best serves people, or just standing up for the kind of open and connected world that we all want to see."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The Internet is a massive force for change and we're at the center of a lot of the debate that brings, but our core value to people and society remains the same. We offer a service free to everyone to help you stay connected with the people you care about, express what you're thinking and feeling, get help when you need it most, support the causes and ideas you believe in, start and grow businesses no matter where you are, and that makes a lot of good possible and we're committed to building technology that people can use to create positive change."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Before we get started, I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that our remarks today will include forward-looking statements. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause these results to differ materially are set forth in today's press release and in our quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC. Any forward-looking statements that we make on this call are based on assumptions as of today, and we undertake no obligation to update these statements as a result of new information or future events."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"As always, thank you for being on this journey with us. And now, here is Sheryl to talk about our business."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sheryl Sandberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks, Mark, and hi, everyone. We had a strong fourth quarter and a good end to the year. Q4 mobile ad revenue was $15.5 billion, increasing 36% year-over-year and contributing approximately 93% of our total ad revenue. Full year mobile ad revenue grew 45% compared to 2017. 2018 was a challenging and important year for us. As Mark said, we made significant investments in safety and security and strengthened our defenses against election interference. We gave people tools to better control their information and set a new standard for transparency and ads. We have focused on making progress in these important areas while continuing to grow our community and our business. This quarter proved that we can do both."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We know we still have a lot of hard work ahead of us. We need to continue to do better at anticipating the risks that come from connecting so many people, and we need to earn back people's trust not with words alone but with actions. Part of building trust is helping people better understand our business model. Protecting people's privacy and showing them relevant ads are not at odds. We don't sell your data and we don't tell advertisers who you are. What we do is allow advertisers to reach people interested in their products. The result is that people see more relevant ads and small businesses can reach people in ways that only big companies previously could. This business model keeps Facebook free so people all around the world can use it and levels the playing field for businesses of all sizes while protecting people's privacy."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I'm excited to announce today that we have more than 7 million active advertisers across our services. From local shops to global brands, companies all over the world are growing and hiring because they can reach their customers on our platform. The opportunities we create for businesses drive our growth, which continues to be broad-based across regions, marketer segments and verticals. During the holidays, companies used our ads to help people discover deals and find gifts. We saw particular strength among advertisers that optimized for measurable objectives, like conversions or sales. For example, Bryan Anthonys an online jewelry store based in Austin, Texas, used our campaign budget optimization to bring in new customers and sales on Black Friday. The campaign was so successful that they tripled their holiday purchases and hired additional people to help pack and ship orders for the busy season."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We're also helping advertisers keep up with shifts in how people use technology. People are creating more Stories and sending more messages, which means these are emerging areas of opportunity for marketers. Today, we're also announcing that 2 million advertisers are using Stories to reach customers across our family of apps. We're making it easier for advertisers to adopt their campaigns for Stories. In Q4, we expanded automatic placements, which converts feed ads into a format that works for Stories and delivers ads wherever they'll get the best results. Framebridge, a start-up that provides custom picture framing, recently used automatic placements to run ads across Instagram Stories, Facebook and Instagram feed. They ran short videos to show that their frames make great holiday gifts, and Instagram Stories generated over 25% of their new customer sales."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"As people increasingly use messaging apps, we're helping small businesses make that shift, too. In Q4, we launched ads in Messenger Stories, which means advertisers can now easily buy Stories ads across Facebook, Instagram and Messenger. Beyond Stories and messaging, we have an opportunity to connect people and businesses on new services like Marketplace. We're seeing good early results at Marketplace ads. In Q4, we worked on making ads more relevant to the products that people are looking for. For example, if someone is browsing furniture in Marketplace, we'll try to show them an ad for furniture or a related item. We plan to keep working on this to provide a better experience for people and more value to advertisers over time."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"As we build new ad products, we remain focused on improving the overall quality of our ads. Across all of our platforms and formats, we're investing in AI to make ads more relevant and effective. In Q4, we developed new AI ranking models to help people see ads they're more likely to be interested in. We're also using AI to identify and more quickly review ads that might violate our policies, which was particularly important during the U.S. midterm elections. Looking ahead, we see more opportunities to use AI to keep people safe on Facebook and help businesses grow."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I want to close by saying thank you to the businesses around the world who are using our tools to create jobs and growth. Last month, I went to Facebook's Community Boost in my hometown of Miami, which was the 50th stop on our tour across the U.S. in 2018, offering digital skills training to small businesses and job seekers. I met entrepreneurs like Alex Kassab. He started Morelia Gourmet Paletas with friends just two years ago. He says that 60% of his new customers learned about their ice cream from Facebook and Instagram. And because of this growth, they've expanded to 12 locations and hired more than 35 people. Last week, I was in Europe and met with SMEs from across the continent who shared similar stories of growing their companies, hiring people and investing in their communities. These stories motivate us to keep improving so more people can succeed on our platform."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I also want to thank our global team for their commitment to tackling our issues and making our products better every single day. As we come out of a challenging year and continue to face challenges ahead, I believe we're in a position to build on the progress we've made and better serve our community in 2019. I am grateful to all of you for your continued hard work and dedication."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"During this call, we may present both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. A reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures is included in today's earnings press release. The press release and an accompanying investor presentation are available on our website at investor.fb.com."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Now, here's Dave."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Wehner"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks, Sheryl, and good afternoon, everyone. Q4 was a strong quarter wrapping up a good year for our business. Full year 2018 revenue grew 37% to $56 billion, and we generated over $15 billion of free cash flow. Let's begin with our community metrics. Daily active users on Facebook reached 1.52 billion, up 9% compared to 2017, led by growth in India, Indonesia and the Philippines. This number represents approximately 66% of the 2.32 billion monthly active users in Q4. MAUs grew 191 million or 9% compared to last year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning to our overall family metrics. Around 2.7 billion people worldwide used one of our applications in December, and on average, over 2 billion people were active daily. This is our best estimate of our de-duplicated audience across Facebook, Instagram, Messenger and WhatsApp. We believe these numbers better reflect the size of our community and the fact that many people are using more than one of our services. For the time being, we will continue to disclose both set of numbers. But over time, we expect family metrics will play the primary role in how we talk about our company and we will eventually phase out Facebook-only community metrics."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning now to the financials. All comparisons are on a year-over-year basis unless otherwise noted. Q4 total revenue was $16.9 billion, up 30% or 33% on a constant currency basis. Had foreign exchange rates remained constant with Q4 '17, total revenue would have been approximately $348 million higher. Q4 total ad revenue was $16.6 billion, up 30% or 33% on a constant currency basis. In terms of regional ad revenue growth, Asia Pacific was strongest at 34%, followed by North America at 31% and Europe at 28%. Rest of World ad revenue grew 24% and was impacted by ongoing currency weakness and macroeconomic challenges. In Q4, the average price per ad decreased 2% and the number of ad impressions served on our services increased 34%. Impression growth was primarily driven by ads on Instagram, including both feed and Stories as well as Facebook mobile News Feed. The year-over-year decline in average price per ad reflects an ongoing mix shift towards product services and geographies that monetize at lower rates. Payments and other fees revenue was $274 million, up 42%. Sales of Oculus Go and the launch of Portal contributed to the revenue growth in the quarter."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning now to expenses. Total expenses were $9.1 billion, up over $1 billion sequentially and up 62% compared to last year. In addition to continued investment in infrastructure, safety and security and innovation, expenses were also driven by seasonal factors, including marketing efforts, notably the promotion of Portal and Oculus Go. We ended the year with over 35,500 full-time employees, a 42% increase."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Operating income was $7.8 billion, representing a 46% operating margin. Our Q4 tax rate was 14%. Net income was $6.9 billion or $2.38 per share. Full year capital expenditures for 2018 were $13.9 billion, driven by investments in data centers, servers, network infrastructure and office buildings. We generated $3.3 billion in free cash flow in Q4 and ended the year with approximately $41 billion in cash and investments."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In Q4, we bought back approximately $3.5 billion of our Class A common stock and completed our prior repurchase authorization. In December, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of an additional $9 billion of stock."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Turning now to the revenue outlook. In Q1, we expect our total revenue growth rate to decelerate by a mid-single-digit percentage on a constant currency basis compared to the Q4 rate. We also expect that our revenue growth rates will continue to decelerate sequentially throughout 2019 on a constant currency basis."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning now to the expense outlook. On a full year basis, we continue to expect 2019 total expenses will grow approximately 40% to 50% compared to 2018. Our 2019 capital expenditure outlook is unchanged at $18 billion to $20 billion, driven primarily by our continued large investment in building data centers."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And now, I'd like to turn the call over to Mark."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Lastly, we expect that our 2019 tax rate will be a few percentage points higher than our 2018 rate. In conclusion, we are confident in our ability to continue to invest effectively in the key priorities that Mark outlined in his opening remarks: making progress on the major social issues facing the Internet, building new experiences that meaningfully improve people's lives, and growing our business by supporting the many businesses that rely on our services."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"With that, operator, let's open up the call for questions."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Question-and-Answer Session"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"[Operator Instructions]. Your first question comes from the line of Brian Nowak from Morgan Stanley."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Brian Nowak"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I have two, the first one for Dave. Last quarter, you talked about an expected sequential deceleration in 4Q rather, and I think it came in a little better than expected. Could you just talk to sort of which forms of media, whether it's News Feed or Stories or Instagram, kind of came in better than you thought it originally would a few months ago and what drove the upside? And then, Mark, you talked about the Instagram commerce opportunity. Maybe just talk us through sort of 1 or 2 of the key - what you think are the most important steps you have to cross throughout 2019 to really execute on this opportunity."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Wehner"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Sure. Thanks, Brian. I'll take the first part of your question. Yes, Q4 was very strong on revenues, so we're pleased with that. On the demand front, we continued to benefit from advertisers targeting on business results. So direct response was especially strong during the holiday season. And then on the supply front, we benefited from strong Instagram growth, which was aided by both growth in impressions on Instagram feed and on Stories. But I'd reiterate that we expect that we will see a deceleration of revenue growth in Q1."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark Zuckerberg"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark Zuckerberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I'd like to talk about - a bit about commerce. When I think about it, just from the consumer side, increasing commerce on Instagram, Facebook and WhatsApp, I think, is one of the most exciting product opportunities that we have in all of these products and a big business opportunity as well. The big things that I think we want to make sure that we nail, in Instagram especially, are discovery. People are already doing a lot of commerce activity and are really interested in following brands, and I think making sure that, that works is - and does well is a big deal. But I think there's also a very big opportunity in basically enabling the transactions and making it so that the buying experience is good and that when you buy from someone - from a seller that you know that you can trust them, that you're going to have a good experience and in facilitating and making that go well. The work that we're going to do in Instagram also will go across the efforts in Marketplace and Facebook, the work - the rest of work that we're doing in Facebook and all the work that we're going to be doing in WhatsApp as well. So this is a big area that I'm personally very excited about and focused on."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Anthony DiClemente from Evercore."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Anthony DiClemente"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Maybe, first, for Sheryl on Stories. Stories continues to grow very quickly. As you said, the number of advertising - advertisers using Stories are growing quickly. Can you give us a little bit more on the performance of the ads? Are you seeing improvements in conversion rates for those ads? Are the ads performance on Stories narrowing the gap with feed ads in terms of pricing or performance? And anything broadly on demand for those ad formats. And then one for Mark. I wonder if you could speak to the possibility of stitching together the messaging apps, WhatsApp, Instagram, Messenger. It would be great to hear what the rationale or potential commercial benefits might be to - or for potential integration of those properties."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sheryl Sandberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I'll take the Stories question. One of the challenges that marketers have is keeping up where consumers are. If you think about our history, people made the shift to mobile before marketers did, and I think one of the successes we've had is we made it easier for advertisers to move into a mobile environment. And just as we did that in mobile, now we're very focused on doing that in the new things that people are doing, and Stories is a big part of that, Messaging will be further out, but as important as well. So I think the fact that we've already gotten 2 million advertisers to move into Stories is because we've gotten better at making it easier. We launched our automatic placements and expanded it, which converts feed ads into a format that works for Stories and delivers the ads wherever they'll get the best results. So our goal is to make it as easy as possible for marketers to get to the format of Stories and then deliver the ads where they're going to get the best experience and the best ROI. Now right now, one of the interesting things about Stories is there's a benefit to being an early adopter. So the pricing is really attractive. And so we think the mix shift to Stories is a big opportunity for us and it's going to take time to continue to get advertisers in, but we're very happy with demand to date."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Wehner"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I would just - before we turn to Mark, I'd just layer in on the Stories front. When we look into 2019, we do expect to see a deceleration of revenue growth throughout the year. And while we have opportunities to grow impressions on Facebook and Instagram, that's less so in feed, where we already have healthy ad loads in - on both surfaces and more in Stories where we have lower CPMs. So - whereas in 2018, we benefited from strong impressions growth on Instagram in both feed and Stories. We'll be more reliant on Stories impression growth in 2019. And from a pricing perspective, there's - we've got to improve our ability to grow the number of advertisers using Stories and improve price there, but it's going to be more reliant on that in terms of revenue growth."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark Zuckerberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks, Deborah, and thank you, all, for joining us today. Our community continues to grow, and our business delivered good results this quarter. There are now 2.7 billion people using Facebook, Instagram, WhatsApp or Messenger each month and more than 2 billion people who use at least one of our services every day."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"All right. I can talk about messaging and the integration that we're thinking about, but first, we're really early in thinking through this. So there's a lot more that we need to figure out before we finalize the plans. And then, of course, this is going to be a long-term project that I think will probably be to whatever extent we end up doing it in - a 2020 thing or beyond. There are a few big reasons why I'm excited about this and think it'll be good for the user experience, which is the reason that we're doing it. I mean, part of the question was about a commercial benefit, but that really isn't the big focus here. The first reason that I'm excited about this is moving more to end-to-end encryption by default in more of our products. People really like this in WhatsApp. I think it's the direction that we should be going in with more things in the future. And I think if there's an opportunity to use the work that we've done with WhatsApp there, rather than doing it in different ways in the different messaging experiences, to have that really just - to have encryption work in a consistent way across the different things that we're doing. There are also a number of cases that we see where people tell us that they want to be able to message across the different services."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So one example is a lot of people, hundreds of millions of people, are using Marketplace on Facebook now, and a lot of people are using that in countries where WhatsApp is the primary messaging app that they use. So we have these experiences today where we're building Marketplace and you go to message someone to buy something. And the link to basically do the messaging is over Messenger, but in that country, where people really want to be using it, is WhatsApp and we need to make it so that people can communicate across the different networks and graphs that they have or be able to do that integration better in order to facilitate more transactions and connections there. Another example is there are tens of millions of people, maybe more, but I'll go with that, who, on Android, use Messenger as not only their app for Facebook messaging but also for SMS, as their SMS client. And going back to the encryption point from before, we think that there's an opportunity to, when you're going to go message someone over a phone number network, have that primarily go over WhatsApp and be end-to-end encrypted rather than go over SMS where it's unencrypted and less secure. So I can give you a few more examples like that, but I guess the way that I'm thinking about this is that there's a handful of cases that people are telling us that they want to be able to integrate and communicate more easily across the networks. I think moving more towards end-to-end encryption and improving security there is the right direction to go in. There's a lot of questions there that we need to work through. So we're working through this in a deliberative way. And I wouldn't expect anything here to launch soon, but this is definitely something that we're thinking about and that I think will improve the user experience."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Eric Sheridan from UBS."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Eric Sheridan"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Two, if I could. One, Mark, on Facebook Watch, what do you think are some of the things you're still trying to solve for on either the content side or the consumer engagement side to drive broader adoption of Watch and turning it into sort of the mechanism for customers that you're trying to solve for over the medium to long term? I'd love to understand how you see the opportunity and the challenge that's just in front of the company. And second, there was a fair bit of noise in the advertising community about the macro environment at the end of 2018 and maybe at the beginning of 2019 with things like Brexit and the government shutdown in the U.S. Are you seeing anything on the macro front in your own business either exiting 2018 or should start in this year?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Wehner"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, I can..."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark Zuckerberg"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Take that first one and then I'll..."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"On our last call, I talked about our overall strategy as we faced some important opportunities and challenges. And today, I want to give you an update and talk about our priorities for 2019. For the past couple of years, most of our focus and energy has gone into addressing some of the biggest social issues around the future of the Internet, including election integrity, content governance, safety and security, data privacy and digital well-being. And these are all complex issues but we've made real progress. In many of these areas, we believe we built the most advanced systems in the world and, in many cases, more advanced than any other company or government. And in other areas, we have clear road maps now for our work ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Wehner"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Yes, I can start on the macro environment, Eric. Obviously, we delivered strong results in Q4. As we look out into 2019 further, that's - the macro economy is certainly a potential headwind and risk to the business just given the sensitivity of the advertising business to a slowdown in growth. Obviously, we believe we've got the best advertising products out there in terms of being able to deliver measurable business results to clients. And so we think that does help us in that environment, but clearly, macroeconomics stands out there as a risk on top of other issues that we face, leading to a deceleration of revenue growth in 2019."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Mark Zuckerberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I'll talk about Watch and video. So there, we've really had this dynamic over the last 12 to 18 months where we've limited the amount of video that we've shown in order to make sure - in News Feed, to make sure that it doesn't displace interactions, social interactions that people are having. And the big thing that unlocked a lot of growth in Watch is we basically were able to move a bunch of the video-watching behavior to a different tab, where people intentionally go to the tab because they want to watch a video and browse and see what's going on. And that has allowed us to really increase the amount of video that people are watching without getting in the way of the core mission of what we do, which is helping people interact."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The two big things that we're really focused on now in Watch are, within the Watch tab, also just making sure that the consumption isn't all just passive consumption and making it so that there are more two-way interactions between viewers and the creators and that we can help build community around that, where we've built this great feature, Watch Party, that allows people to come together with their friends to watch different content and premiers. It's a new feature that allows people to basically take a video and stream it live for the first time when it comes out. So these are all things that make it so the video-watching experience isn't just about passive consumption but about interaction, and that's going to, I think, help really drive engagement as well. Then there's also the monetization side for creators, which is going to be really important for making it so that we have the content that people want to consume. And that's just a big thing that we're continuing to focus on. We think that the more money that creators can make through Watch, there will be a virtuous cycle there. And that's going to be really important for continuing to grow this as well. But right now, it looks like this is going in a good direction. It's still very early. We're still growing quickly but from a small base, but it's one of the things that I'm excited about for this year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from the line of Doug Anmuth from JPMorgan."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Douglas Anmuth"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"One for Mark and one for Dave. Mark, it's been more than a year since you shifted to feeds for more friends and family and removed the passive videos, as you just talked about, and reported engagement numbers, obviously good. Are there any signs that the changes you made a year ago are now having a more positive impact on engagement in the core Facebook feed? And then, Dave, you talked 3 months ago about better aligning revenue and expenses in 2020. I was just curious if that's still your view at this point. What gives you the confidence you can do that? And what changes most from a spending perspective as you look toward 2020?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Wehner"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Still, there's a lot more to do, and I expect it will take strong execution through 2019 and beyond before we get all our systems to the level that we need. But we've fundamentally changed how we run this company. We've changed how we build services to focus more on preventing harm. We've invested billions of dollars in security, which has affected our profitability. We've taken steps that reduced engagement in WhatsApp to stop misinformation and reduced viral videos in Facebook by more than 50 million hours a day to improve well-being. We've made significant progress and we're going to continue this work, but we're also going to allocate more of our energy to building new and inspiring ways to help people connect and build community."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, I can start on the expense front. We continue to have an outlook for expense growth in 2019 of 40% to 50% total expense growth. We did see headcount growth come down modestly in Q4 from Q3 to 42%. As we look out, we do expect that beyond 2018 - sorry, beyond 2019, we'll have expense growth more in line with revenue growth. But we do plan to continue to invest aggressively in the priority areas, including on the innovation side with AR\/VR and AI and continuing to invest in the safety and security programs that we're undergoing. And then CapEx, we'll see continue to flow in through the P&L over time. And you already saw that pick up with the cost of revenue growth in Q4. And so we'll expect to see more of that flow through over time. So I would say, we do plan to continue to invest aggressively in the business going forward, and we are going to see, obviously, a margin impact from that in 2019."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark Zuckerberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And I can talk a bit about meaningful social interactions, although I don't have any specific metrics to share on this. I mean, my own take of this, I think this has gone pretty well and has done what we had hoped, although we've made a number of changes. This is a long-term direction that we're going to continue making more ranking changes and building more products around, but I think that this is kind of reflected broadly in the numbers that you see on engagement and the growth in daily actives and how people are engaging across the family of apps. At the time, what I basically said was, that even though this might decrease time spent and we expected that it would, is we took out especially a bunch of watching of viral videos. We thought that helping people interact more was the unique thing that people come to our services for and that it would be good for the community and the business over the long term. And certainly, everything that we've seen since then suggests that, that is right."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Justin Post from Bank of America Merrill Lynch."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Justin Post"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. A couple of questions. First, pretty rough press cycle in Q4. Did you see any impact in the U.S. and Europe on engagement or usage or people closing their accounts? It certainly doesn't seem evident in MAU numbers. But just anecdotally, did you see any impact or - on that? And then maybe to Sheryl, if we look at trailing 12 month monetization in the U.S. ARPU, it's about $110. And just how do you think about that long term? If you improve targeting, is there room to grow that significantly? Obviously, Instagram's a growth platform that's contributing to that there. But just how do you think about where ARPU is and where it could be very long term?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Wehner"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Justin, I can probably take both of those. In terms of our ability to continue to grow the advertising business, it's about working to develop the best products we can to enable advertisers to achieve their end business results. Targeting is obviously very important in that. One of the things I would point out is that from a pricing perspective, there are headwinds that we might face on targeting, given the overall privacy landscape in 2019. And so I think that is another factor that presents risk in our ability to continue to grow ARPU. So I would point that out as being an issue. As well, we're seeing a mix shift towards Stories. And that is going to be something that will contribute to a deceleration of our revenue growth. So that's another factor that's leading to deceleration of revenue growth in 2019. In terms of your first question, Justin, about the impact of the press cycle, I would just - I'd probably just let the numbers stand for themselves. We saw that we are growing in all regions albeit we're sort of bouncing around in the developed markets like the U.S. and Canada. In Q4, we saw better growth in Europe because we've come off of the GDPR - the first two quarters of GDPR. So we saw a little bit of a rebound there."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sheryl Sandberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Going into 2019, we're focused on four priorities: first, continue making progress on the major social issues facing the Internet and our company; second, build new experiences that meaningfully improve people's lives today and set the stage for even bigger improvements in the future; third, keep building our business by supporting the millions of businesses, mostly small businesses, that rely on our services to grow and create jobs; then fourth, communicate more transparently about what we're doing and the role our services play in the world. And I want to take a minute talk about each of these."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I'll talk a little bit about long-term growth opportunities. David is, of course, right that the mix shift and pricing continues to be an issue. But I think over the very long term, which is how you framed your question, we have a lot of opportunity. If you look at what percentage of our ads are truly relevant to the people who are seeing them, I think we've done a lot better over the last couple of years, but we have a long way to go. And that means that for every ad we show, that ad can be better, better for people, show something they're more interested in. I also think the shift we're seeing towards people doing more measurable results, and this is important to understand. It's not just what people think of as direct response advertisers. It's some of the largest brands in the world really going for the results that they're looking for. That bodes very well for our business because we think we can do that very efficiently. And then when we have new opportunities that open up like Stories, even with some pressure on pricing, we think that gives us more inventory and more opportunity and more formats, and we haven't really even gotten started on future things like messaging. So over the very long run, I think we remain very optimistic about the growth opportunities we have."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Mark Mahaney from RBC Capital Markets."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Zachary Schwartzman"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"It's Zachary Schwartzman on for Mark. Mark, I have a question on data privacy as it relates to your 2019 goal of progressing major social issues. This is a topic that is important for the Internet ecosystem as a whole and not just Facebook, and it appears that regulators are struggling to come up with comprehensive reform that it's appropriate for all stakeholders involved. Facebook has invested a lot to improve data privacy, transparency and trust in the platform over the last year, but I wanted to hear your thoughts on the following. In your Facebook post at the end of 2018, you asked the question of whether we should decentralize authority through encryption or other means to put more power into the people's hands and that you plan to discuss these topics in the public domains. As the accumulation of data and micro targeting increases, so can the value of individual's data. Do you see a future where individuals are compensated for renting their data to Facebook and other tech companies? Will that be in the form of crypto through decentralized blockchains or other methods like a traffic acquisition cost? I know we're in early days and due to scalability and consumer adoption roadblocks, this isn't possible yet, but do you believe these technologies are real existential risk or perhaps even a solution to the current data privacy trust and control issues on the Internet?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mark Zuckerberg"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I mean, this is a really important question, one that we are spending a lot of time on, broadly thinking about. I do generally - I mean, I believe very strongly in trying to decentralize and put power in individual's hands. I mean, that's always been the first part of the mission of Facebook, is giving people the power to share, to connect, to come together and build communities, but give people the power has always been the primary and first thing that we have focused on. And one of the ways that we're talking about decentralization is through end-to-end encryption in messaging. I do think that there is a very broad sense, as you're saying, that - and greater awareness that having data stored for long periods of time with companies cannot only be an asset, and that it can help provide better services but can also be a liability in that there could be breaches or the data could be used in ways that weren't intended."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And I think people broadly are starting to get that more, which is why things like encryption are so attractive to people and why features around ephemerality or keeping data less permanently are becoming increasingly important. So when you think about the types of products that we're building on messaging, where encryption is going to play a huge role, sharing with your friends, where Stories, which is ephemeral, is the main thing that's growing. I mean, these are really privacy-first products, and I think that, that's kind of the most important way that we're thinking about this whole space overall. I think that this is going to become increasingly important not just from the perspective of what does the privacy policy say but how is this deeply designed into the products that we're building. I mean, these are the products that are growing the quickest and these are differentiating parts of why they work and why people prefer them as opposed to other services. In terms of regulation overall, I think that, that's going to be very important. We - the basic - the principles behind GDPR in Europe, I think we're very important, and I think having that codified around the world would be a very positive step. And I mean, we're working with folks to enable that but I think that, that would be good for people everywhere to make sure that basically every person who uses an Internet service has the same protections no matter where they live."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Lloyd Walmsley from Deutsche Bank."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":" Eric, I also think it\u2019s a good data point around the fact that we are growing the entertainment business. So, the idea that it\u2019s good for the industry to know, it\u2019s good for the creative community to know, it\u2019s good for fans to know that we\u2019re \u2013 at a time when we\u2019re growing big audience films like that, the box office by way of example, the North American box office has grown in the fourth quarter. So \u2013 and in fact had some records. So I think it\u2019s a very exciting time. And we thought it\u2019d be a good idea to give you some idea of the scale of that and how to put it in context. "},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Good afternoon, and welcome to Netflix Q4 2018 Earnings Interview. I\u2019m Spencer Wang, VP of IR and Corporate Development. Joining me today are CEO, Reed Hastings; our new CFO, Spence Neumann; Chief Content Officer, Ted Sarandos; and our Chief Product Officer, Greg Peters. Our interviewer this quarter is Eric Sheridan from UBS. As a reminder, we will be making forward-looking statements and actual results may vary."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"When you look at the chart we put in our earnings letter, which has the weekly growth rate, you can just see how steady it is. And we\u2019re just continuing to work away on all the things that we\u2019ve always done. And what\u2019s wonderful is the Internet entertainment market is just growing, so we\u2019re continuing to fulfill a need that we see."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And Eric\u2026"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Do you want add anything?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And Eric, if I could just add a little bit more color to Reed\u2019s comments. I would say the other facet I would highlight is that the strength in membership growth was really broad based geographically. So, really thrilled with the progress we\u2019re seeing in the international segment. And again, that\u2019s not one \u2013 any one single territory or any one single country, but really broad based and I think that reflects the global nature of the secular drivers that we have, which is adoption of broadband globally and the adoption of on-demand entertainment globally."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And maybe following up on that is there anything, and maybe this is for a combination of Reed and Ted, was there anything on the local language front? I know that is a piece that we\u2019ve talked about on prior earnings videos about how local language content is driving adoption of the product on a global scale. Anything to call out there you saw in the quarter that should portend well for 2019?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Well, I\u2019d say one thing, this quarter has been incredibly exciting and the things that are playing out and you see the numbers of \u2013you see a big number like Bird Box and You, these shows are playing incredibly globally. So, it\u2019s an interesting thing when you can tap into the global zeitgeist, which is something, which gets me very excited about the potential scale of the content business when the world is excited about something."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Maybe going back to something that\u2019s in the release that was also talked about in the press earlier this week that you\u2019re going to be raising price in Q1 in the U.S. market. Always curious what goes into the thought process around raising price on the service, how confident you are that customers are ready to absorb a higher price for the service when you look out? So, maybe, Reed, I could start with your perspective on how you think about pricing the product in the marketplace and what it means for subscriber momentum going forward?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Greg, I\u2019ll punt to you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. I think the model we\u2019ve got is a fairly simplistic one, where we think our job is to effectively invest the money that our subscribers give us every month, so that we can give them incredible content in a better and better product experience. And if we do that well, we create more value for our subscribers and then occasionally, we\u2019ll come to them and we\u2019ll ask for a little bit more money, so that we can actually start that next cycle of investment."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And so that\u2019s the overarching framework. And then we look at the engagement levels and a bunch of other things to try and understand what our pricing should be and generally we\u2019ve seen that those are pretty accurate and the price changes that we\u2019ve done are rolling out as expected."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"With that, let me turn it over to you, Eric, for the first question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Well, I want to follow up with you Greg on this, because if you look versus a year ago, tremendous level of push on the personalization side and the service, more focus on mobile on the product side as you\u2019ve looked out over the last 12 months. Were those some of the things you saw that that allowed you to see either higher engagement, new use cases emerging along the subscriber base? What did you see in some of those product developments that that fed into maybe a pricing discussion?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I would say that I wouldn\u2019t tie them so directly. I mean we\u2019re generally trying to think about every way we can make the product experience better for our members around the world and that\u2019s mobile changes, where we give them a higher quality experience. We also do things like we give them previews and the ability to sort of like do some sampling of content ahead of time to understand what\u2019s coming to the service as well as things that you mentioned like increasing. Well, we think about is more like how do we tell a story about each of the story."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So when we have a new show coming on how do we effectively communicate what we think is going to be relevant to each of our subscribers in a strong way. So, they can get excited about those shows as well. So, those dimensions and really many, many others, where we just constantly invest in, we don\u2019t really think about it, we\u2019re doing those things, so we can increase price. Within those things, we can just create more fun and excitement for our members. And if they have a great time, then we\u2019ll be able to invest more in content and making more product experience benefits."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Maybe just one more for you, Greg, before moving on, one of the things we noticed in the quarter was Netflix moved up the app download charts with respect to mobile smartphones in the iOS world. Always been a very downloaded app on the iPad front and the tablet front and smart TVs. Was there anything you guys did in terms of either pivoting the business more towards phone in the quarter and to start 2019? Is there anything on the product side you want to call out, because it seems like a pretty pronounced change in some of the data we\u2019re trying to analyze?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. nothing really specific and I think it really speaks more to just the general relevance that the application has and as you see us sort of accelerate in terms of subscriber additions and more members around the worlds using the service. Those members are using it on mobile in large part as well. And so we just see an increased rate of download and that\u2019s what we think is happening there."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay, Ted, following up on what Greg just said there, with the price increase going through and there has been other jurisdictions when you put price increases through and talking around similar frameworks, margins and free cash flow than you had talked about previously. I think the natural conclusion some of us have is the incremental investment dollar is going into content. So, Ted, help us to understand what is an incremental dollar that\u2019s being generated by the business going into on the content side, and how should we think about content investments in 2019 versus 2018?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I think Reed said it right. It\u2019s more of the same, but on a continued larger scale. So the level of investment that we\u2019re doing in our original film space, it definitely changes the economics in terms of licensing films and later windows versus producing films, which is a more kind of front-loaded cash activity, but has a much better payback for us. And when you have something like Bird Box, the ability to invest in the next one is just all about \u2013 all the greater. And I think in local language content investments improved \u2013 continuing to improve the markets that are emerging for us both in the markets at scale around everyone kind of like some of the same things and other markets that are more unique content tastes like in Korea and Japan and India, where we\u2019re able to be much more fine-tuned about what we\u2019re offering those markets as well."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"And Eric, just to add on specifically to narrowly answer your question on content spend for 2019, we\u2019re not giving individual expense item \u2013 expense line item guidance, but I will say that it was $7.5 billion in content amortization in 2018. And I think you can obviously expect that to grow and the trajectory should be pretty similar. But the other thing to bear in mind is that we\u2019ve also committed to growing the operating margin as well in 2019 by about 300 basis points year-over-year to 13%. So, those will work together, so you\u2019ll see improved margin, but also higher content spend as well."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And then we do see that payback Eric, as Greg mentioned earlier, an increased engagement, so which again continuing the virtuous cycle, where you\u2019ve got more \u2013 the more investment you\u2019re putting in, the more people are finding content that they love and the more they have value in the service."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Well, speaking to higher engagement, I think in reading the release, I was legitimately stunned that there was more viewership data in this release, then I\u2019d see it in the Netflix release in a while, I guess obviously, probably, a lot of content that outperformed maybe expectations, but what drove some of the new sort of qualitative and quantitative commentary in this shareholder letter around engagement and viewership around key pieces of property?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks so much Spencer. And since, Spence, you are new to the Netflix earnings call, I\u2019m going to turn the first question over to you. First, congratulations on the role as the new CFO of Netflix. Maybe give us your perception of why the role intrigued you in terms of moving to Netflix? What your first perceptions are? And some of the things you plan on making a focus for your tenure as the CFO at Netflix?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I would look at it like these are less financial metrics as they are cultural metric. So that what does it mean when 80 million households watch Bird Box? Well, culturally it means exactly the same thing as 80 million plus people buying a movie ticket to seeing it or 80 million households watching a TV show. So culturally, it\u2019s meaningfully out there. People talking about it, tweeting about it, posting about it, challenging each other, do different things, which we want people to be very careful when they do. But really what\u2019s important is that for part of your Netflix subscription, you\u2019re in the Zeitgeists, you\u2019re \u2013 you get \u2013 you\u2019re watching the programming that the rest of the world is loving at the same time. So that\u2019s a \u2013 so we gave you some numbers out to give you some sense of the scale and the scope of it. I think it\u2019s important for artists to understand \u2013 to have the audience also understand the size of the reach of their work. So that\u2019s why you\u2019ll see us ramping up a little bit more and more and giving out, sharing a little more of  that information."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":" And then, Eric, we also included this analysis of the total TV entertainment market in the United States. Just to point out how large a market that is about a billion hours a day enjoying television, against gaming platforms, linear, DVD, Netflix, everything. And we\u2019re running about 10% of that. So it\u2019s just a very large and fragmented market. There is an incredible set of broad uses. And we did it on television, because television is 100% entertainment time, whereas mobile phones and laptops are some percent entertainment and some percent work and communication activities. So that \u2013 that\u2019s just \u2013 it sets a broad contest. In other nations, we\u2019re a smaller percentage of the total TV viewing, because we\u2019re less penetrated, but 10% is a great mark for us."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":" No doubt driven by the theatrical revisions of ROMA.  "},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, yes. "},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Maybe going back to the product side and Greg, when you hear about the engagement you\u2019re seeing and the content success of the platform, help us understand a little bit of how the product might evolve. I mean, I think, one of the most unique things in the quarter was the interactivity of the Black Mirror product. Would love to talk about both the product side within Netflix and then on the content creation side as Ted talks to content partners about how that interactivity is something new, interesting and might spur engagement, product development and content relationships."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. I think, it\u2019s a great example of us trying to take a technical capability and the flexibility of our distribution platform and trying to figure out how do we use those things to innovate on storytelling in a storytelling format. And it\u2019s super exciting to be able to do that in a way, which to your point drives more engagement. We\u2019re definitely seeing that with Black Mirror and Bandersnatch. But also sort of extends the pallet and the portfolio, the toolset that the storytellers that we\u2019re going to be working with in the years to come have to tell their stories in the most compelling way. So, we\u2019ve been super excited about it. And you should anticipate we\u2019ll do more of those as we start to explore that format. And then I\u2019ll turn it over to Ted to talk about from a content perspective."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. I would just say there\u2019s been a few false starts on interactive storytelling in the last couple of decades. And I would tell you that this one has got storyteller salivating about the possibilities. So we\u2019ve been talking to a lot of folks about it and we\u2019re trying to figure it out too meaning is it novel, does it fit so perfectly in the Black Mirror world that it doesn\u2019t \u2013 it isn\u2019t a great indicator for how to do it, but we\u2019ve got a hunch that it works across all kinds of storytelling and some of the greatest storytellers in the world are excited to dig into it. To give you some sense that\u2019s over five hours of content that\u2019s produced for that episode for people to choose their own paths, and there\u2019s countless ways that they could go and end up with. And that is an incredible challenge and of usually exciting thing that differentiates Netflix for creators. "},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And I think in that challenge is also an opportunity, right. It\u2019s an opportunity to bring technology to bear, to create a toolset for creators to make that process easier and more effective. "},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Right."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. Thanks, Eric. Well first, I\u2019m super excited to be here. A part of what attracted me is just what Netflix is trying to build. I\u2019ve always been attracted to the high ended product quality and ambition, and Netflix has all of that and what we\u2019re creating. First impressions this is day nine. So, I haven\u2019t been here for long. I\u2019m trying to really immerse myself in the business to a lot of listening and learning, really planning to do that for probably the first 60 days or so for sure."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Eric, there is one piece of data that didn\u2019t make the release and that\u2019s what percentage of people chose Frosties versus Sugar Puffs. The answer is 73% for Frosties. "},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"That\u2019s a level of data transparency. We have not seen our content yet\u2026"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"It was critical data point of the quarter."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Completely anecdotal, but the Sheridan House picked Frosties multiple times. So we fed into those numbers, my wife and I. Let\u2019s bring it all together. Now that we\u2019ve talked a little bit about a price increase subscriber trends, how money gets reinvested back into content. Spence, I\u2019d love to turn to you when say, when you think about the free cash flow profile of the business, some of the commentary in the letter around improving free cash flow from 2019 and beyond, how do you think about funding the business, the approach the business has always taken to the capital markets? Any perspective you have that you think might be different than in the past? Or do you think it\u2019s going to be steady as it goes? How are you thinking about sort of the funding in the capital structure side of the equation albeit new to the role?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. So, well, first, we feel great about our content investment. It really is investment that is as even as you \u2013 as we talked about those viewing numbers and characteristics that speaks to at some degree the return on those content investments, the return on that capital. We feel really good about that as obviously the move to more owned content and production has pulled forward some of that spend relative to the former operating model or predominantly licensed model."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":" So that has put pressure on the cash flows of the business and cash needs of the business over the past few years, but when you saw on the letters that we \u2013 the negative cash flow in the business of roughly $3 billion in 2018, we\u2019re predicting sort of similar levels in 2019 and then to meaningfully improve that trajectory going forward. So that comes with driving the subscribers in the business, driving the revenues, driving the \u2013 scaling the margins in the business as we\u2019ve committed to from just 4% a couple of years ago to 10% last year and committing to 13% operating margins in 2019 and beyond. "},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So, this is a business with characteristics that that certainly allow for very healthy operating margins going forward. You can look at almost any benchmark of a comparable type of company. And so, we feel very good about the operating leverage in the business long-term, ultimately turning that into a much more positive contributor and conversion into cash flow. And ultimately, our aspiration is to be self-funding. And we believe we will do that over time with these content investments."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"In the interim, as we continue to need to access the markets, I don\u2019t foresee any change to our approach. We\u2019ve talked about the fact that we\u2019ve accessed the debt markets to do that and we\u2019ll continue to do so. We think that that is the optimal cost of financing and funding to-date and we\u2019ll continue to pursue that path."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Great. too back on the price increase and the subscriber forecast for Q1, just want to make sure there is a clarification point. Number one, in the shareholder letter, you talked about the price increase going into effect during Q1 and Q2, if I remember correctly, the last time there was a price increase, it went into effect over a 12-month period. Maybe just to understand a little bit, what the mechanics are of the price increase, so people can understand some of the decision process behind that, maybe how it flows through the numbers in the first half of 2019?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sure. I can take that Eric. So, with respect to the price changes, in the U.S., the new pricing goes into effect for new members, existing members will be phased in over the next several months. So, you\u2019ll see that impact over the course of the year and what that means is that will obviously impact the rate of net addition growth in the first half of the year. But commensurately, you also see ASP domestically improve over the course of the year and that\u2019s what we think will drive an acceleration in revenue growth over the course of 2019. And that\u2019s what also we believe drive operating margin higher sequentially over the course of the year to enable us to hit that 13% target for the full year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And I\u2019ve already been struck by first just the level of integration and collaboration across this company, all aspects of the company, combined with speed of decision-making and moving forward has been really unique to see. So, also I\u2019ve been really impressed with just the team, the quality of the team, not just my direct team, but across the board again, and their passion and commitment to continue to innovate and improve, improving the content offering, elevating the level of the \u2013 and quality of service we deliver to our members and not just our existing members, but our new members and really driving that positive flywheel for our members and ultimately for our business."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Maybe one followup that that came through from investors just thinking through the price increases, it was reported in \u2013 or speculated in the press over the last couple of days was how it might inform forward subscriber guidance, it looks like you\u2019re talking about U.S. paid net additions at a pretty similar level in Q1 versus Q4 and yet you are putting a price increase in place. The last time you did that, there was a fair bit of conservatism in the forward guide. How should we reconcile maybe the framework for guidance versus the price increase going into the marketplace? How should investors interpret that?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure, Eric. I would say there\u2019s no change in terms of the guidance philosophy. And as we write every quarter, our approach is to strive for accuracy and our guidance forecast. And to do that, we take into account all the known variables that we\u2019re aware of when we set guidance. So, really it is our best guess and we\u2019re not by design trying to be overly conservative or overly aggressive, and we\u2019re really trying to be accurate with it. So that\u2019s the color I provide you with respect to that question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. 2018, which we talked about in the last interview and it has been a topic through the year was the year you framed as a company of testing and learning on the marketing front, possibly pivoting away from fewer subscriber acquisition, pivoting more towards spending money on the marketing side against your brand, individual pieces of content. What did you, as a company, learned this year as you went through that process about the way to allocate marketing dollars on a global scale to arrive at the most optimum outcome of subscriber additions, promoting brand, promoting content, driving engagement, and how should we apply those lessons as we think out to the way marketing might be a sort of trajectory through 2019 and beyond?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Almost all of our investments are promoting these incredible new titles we have like Bird Box. So that\u2019s our primary focus, at least on the paid marketing side. On the earned media side, it\u2019s broad. And then we have some straight acquisition targeted marketing that we also spend, but the bulk of it is around promoting the incredible new titles and getting them broadly launched."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Great. And Greg maybe following up with you when not just when you think about marketing dollars, but also when you think about distributing the product broadly, I think this was a year 2018, where you struck a lot of partnerships to help on the distribution front, love to start with Greg, but love to have anyone chime in that feels they should on what some of those partnerships brought to the platform in 2018. How you think some of those partnerships are set up to aid platform awareness and distribution in 2019 and beyond, and how you think about the scalability for more of those partnerships when you look out over the next couple of years?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sure. And I think some has been here for a decade plus. it\u2019s sort of pulling that long thread of increasingly using partners in different ways to promote the service and to make it easier for members and members to be to sign up. So, we\u2019ve been doing partners for a long, long time. It\u2019s sort of been this March from integration on devices and just makes that a point to engage with the service to doing things like billing, on behalf of or we do billing integration. And now the latest sort of iteration that we\u2019re working with is, is bundling model, right. And so we\u2019re early on in that process, but I would say we\u2019re quite excited by the results that we\u2019re seeing. And I think mostly, it\u2019s because we believe it allows us to access a segment of consumers, who are big entertainment fans, but maybe, they\u2019re not as sort of technology forward or early adopters."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And so, they haven\u2019t signed up with us directly. And so by putting Netflix on a set-top box, which are using to access a bunch of other video content and by including the Netflix subscription in a package of either their mobile subscription or pay-TV subscription, we can make it just super, super simple for those folks to get to know Netflix and to enjoy the kind of big shows that we\u2019re seeing like Bird Box, et cetera."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So, I would anticipate we\u2019ll do more of those. We rolled out sky and free in Europe this quarter and we\u2019ve got more to come. but also worth noting that, we\u2019re going to grow that segment of the business, but it\u2019s small in terms of acquisition impact. It\u2019s nice supplemental channel, but it\u2019s smaller relative to the total organic subscriber acquisition that we have."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So, I would anticipate we\u2019ll do more of those. We rolled out sky and free in Europe this quarter and we\u2019ve got more to come. but also worth noting that, we\u2019re going to grow that segment of the business, but it\u2019s small in terms of acquisition impact. It\u2019s nice supplemental channel, but it\u2019s smaller relative to the total organic subscriber acquisition that we have."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I could add back to your last question, Eric. Those distribution partners turned out to be great promoters of our content brands as well"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So, it\u2019s really been great. I\u2019ve got a lot to learn. I want to thank everyone, all of the folks around the company for being patient and helping me with my onboarding. And really one just a quick special shout out to David Wells. He has been unbelievably gracious with his time, with his insights. And I\u2019m sure he\u2019ll always be at Netflix, but I hope for a long time to come, he\u2019ll be a friend, a colleague and a resource for me."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And maybe, one followup, when you do those partnerships, has there been one avenue that\u2019s moved its needle more than another, whether it\u2019s in the home broadband space, partnering with infrastructure companies or on the multiple telephony front in promoting mobile usage and mobile engagement on the platform? Or have you\u2019ve seen roughly similar results irrespective of the type of partner?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I would say every market is different and every partner is different in terms of their goals and what they\u2019re \u2013 the message that they\u2019re communicating to their subscribers and how we can link that message with the Netflix message as well. but so nothing stands out thematically or sort of a general trend that I would say, but each one is incremental and so we look to do more of all kinds"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Maybe going back to the shareholder letter, one phrase in the shareholder letter that Ted, I wanted to ask you about, the phrase less focused on second run programming. I think one of the big investor debates and questions around Netflix becomes what happens to licensed content that may come off the platform in 2019 and beyond. How you plan for that content coming off the platform? What it means for investments? What it means for engagement? Maybe reflect upon that statement in the shareholder letter and how it informs maybe the mix shift or the planning process for content as you look out to 2019 and beyond"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Well, most of those licensing deals are multiyear. So, it gets \u2013 that gets caught up in our long-term content commitments. That\u2019s all part of those that content. remember our early investment in doing original content more than six years ago was betting that this would be, there would come a day when the studios and networks may opt not to license us content in favor of maybe creating their own services, which was \u2013 that\u2019s a corner that I\u2019m glad we saw around a few years ago"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And today, I\u2019d say the vast majority of the content that is watched on Netflix are our original content brands. We do license a lot of second run content and in that we have a lot of episodes. So we have shows like Grey\u2019s Anatomy or Friends, we have hundreds of episodes. It\u2019s a lot of hours of watching, but that if you stack all those, all of that viewing, sort of like a top 50 or top 25 most watched shows by seasons or by series, that\u2019s dominated primarily by our original content brands. We are still a buyer in that second run market. We both are pre-buyer, been buying it before the shows come out and sometimes an aftermarket buyer, but it really is up to the sellers whether or not they want to continue to sell"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And adding to Ted\u2019s comments, the top brands that we have, being originals like Bird Box are phenomenal and an unscripted now, it\u2019s our first category, where a majority of the viewing is a branded original, in the other categories we\u2019re climbing, not yet at a majority, but on track for it"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And two years ago, we didn\u2019t have any original unscripted content at all. So that\u2019s how fast that that those moves can take place"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And Eric, we\u2019ve also said we\u2019re not overly dependent on any one single piece of content as well. So, the viewing is quite diverse and as"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Next, through our originals as well"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"That\u2019s right. And as Ted mentioned, all of these licensed deals are staggered in sort of waterfall in over a period of time. So, there\u2019s no sort of cliff there"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Great. Maybe since we are at the end of one year and the beginning of another, I\u2019d love to turn to Reed and maybe, Reed, ask you to set the table. What were the big learnings of 2018? What were the things that that you felt the company really attacked in the marketplace in 2018? And as you look out to 2019 and beyond, what are those big opportunities? What are those big challenges? What are you trying to focus the entire management team around in terms of executing against the plan looking forward for Netflix?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Waterfall and cliff, right"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I am on a roll"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Go ahead"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Maybe following up one more piece of the content side, one question that came into me as the moderator of this quarter in a couple of different ways was how to think about ownership of content versus co-production of content, what the right mix shift of that is medium-to-longer term, what\u2019s some of the pros or cons are of the approach of either doing co-production versus outright ownership and how we should think about that developing over the next couple of years"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Well, the one thing is our main goal is to make the best content. And we\u2019ve said \u2013 we\u2019ve said in previous quarters that that is a combination of several different business models depending on who owns the IP. So, what we\u2019re going to do is make the best show and not be stuck on the business model, because the consumer really doesn\u2019t understand that or we even want to spend any time thinking about it"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So by way of example, last year, we had 140 different shows around the world that premiered on A network somewhere and on Netflix everywhere else in the world. next year, it\u2019s more to closer to 180. And these are combination of co-producing with local producers in other countries; it shows that then air on a network in that country and then premier on Netflix. But when I say co-production, I mean, we come in at the script stage, we come in at the first money stage, we\u2019re involved creatively with the production of that show"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Bodyguard is a good example of that, that we produced with ITV that the BBC premiered in the UK and that at the same time. we released it on Netflix around the world, and we produced it together at the script stage. We\u2019re involved in the production to that show and outside of the UK, it is a netflix original show and in the UK, we follow a broadcast window from the BBC. And again, we\u2019ve had a great success with the show around the world. One additional data point, we have over 23 million households have watched bodyguard in Netflix in the first four weeks and it\u2019s a good example of taking a show from anywhere in the world to the rest of the world. And we do other ones where we just are whereby territories. There use to be a tradition in television, where the network would make one show and then the \u2013 they take it to MACE \u2013 to the MACE screenings and try to sell market after market after market, that\u2019s less and less the case while we\u2019re working with producers and networks now to pre-buy or co-produce for the rest of the world. A similar evolution to the old studio film business, where the studios used to carry the international rights until they sold them and then they more frequently now go out and do international co-productions"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Eric, I think we have time for one more question please"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. And maybe turning it back to Reed, I think one of the more interesting sections in the shareholder letter, Reed, was you talked about the competitive landscape, big question, big debate. We get a lot from investors. You talked about it a lot of ways all ships rising, but talk a little bit about the landscape. What do you see out there on the landscape to attract user retention, user engagement, monetization, attract content creators, and how you think that competitive landscape will evolve and how do you think about navigating it from not only just 2019, but for the longer-term, Reed"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"All ships rising as a little Pollyanna, optimistic, I think about it really is as winning time away, entertainment time from other activities. So, instead of doing Xbox or Fortnite or youTube or HBO or a long list, we want to win and provide a better experience. No advertising on demand. Incredible content. And so when you think of just the U.S. terms as an example. There\u2019s a billion hours of television content being consumed today, we\u2019re winning about 10% of it"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"For 20 years, we\u2019ve been trying to please our members and it\u2019s really the same focus year-after-year. We\u2019ve got all these ways to try to figure out, which shows work best, which product features work best, we\u2019re a learning organization and it\u2019s the same virtuous cycle, improve the service for our members. We grow. That gives us more money to invest. So, it\u2019s the same things we\u2019ve always been doing at just greater scale."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And so that\u2019s why like Disney, they have great content, we\u2019re excited for their launch and maybe they grow over a couple of years to 50 million hours a day, but that\u2019s out of the billion. And so we compete so broadly with all of these different providers that any one provider entering, only makes a difference on the margin. And so again, that\u2019s why we don\u2019t get so focused on any one competitor and really think our best way is to win more time by having the best experiences, all the things we do. And that\u2019s helped us a lot. Another thing that\u2019s helped us a lot is having David Wells as our CFO for the last 10 years. It\u2019s been an incredible joyous partnership. And so to wrap up this call, I\u2019m going to turn it over to David Wells to come say goodbye"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Surprise guest. So, Reed and the group was great to give me this sort of last word. Thank you. A giant thank you to our investors. I\u2019ve been here nearly 15 years. That\u2019s 51 quarters including this one with 32 as the CFO, a 1000% plus growth in the value of the company and I\u2019ve been a big part of that and I\u2019m really thankful and respectful for that. And I\u2019ve got just super high confidence in Spence. We spent a lot of time together. I think he\u2019s going be great for the next phase of Netflix growth so \u2013 and just really thanks. Thanks to all the investors. Thank you"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Fair enough. Obviously, I think almost every conversation each quarter starts with performance of the business. We saw strong subscribers in the quarter, strong comments about the way subscribers should continue to start the year in 2019. Throwing and open to the broader team maybe starting with Reed, but what did you see on the subscriber landscape as you look down to what \u2013 the way the business performed in Q4, and what kind of confidence that\u2019s giving you in the growth opportunities looking out to early 2019?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Greetings and welcome to the Microsoft Fiscal Year 2018 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mike Spencer, General Manager of Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"With that as a backdrop, I want to highlight key areas of innovation and growth across our customer solutions. Creating a modern workplace where people can do their best work requires the right culture and the right technology. Microsoft 365 helps every organization empower their employees with AI-backed tools that unlock creativity, increase teamwork and fuel innovation, all the while ensuring compliance and protecting data from new cyber threats."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Excellent. Thank you, guys, for taking the question and really nice quarter across the board. There's really not much to pick on in this quarter. One of the highlights from my perspective was definitely LinkedIn and what seems to be an acceleration in the revenue growth in LinkedIn. So a two-parter here. One, where are we in terms of that acquisition? Is this still just LinkedIn operating better as an independent company or are we starting to see some of the synergies, specifically revenue synergies, come to bear from maybe broader distribution channel that they get from Microsoft or product integration? So have synergies started to kick in, number one?And number two, given where we are in terms of the M&A process on LinkedIn, what's the appetite for further like large M&A for Microsoft on a going-forward basis?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks, Keith, for the question. Let me start and then, Amy, you can add to this. First of all, it is very important for us to ensure that we did everything to enable LinkedIn to keep their product and cultural ethos of putting members first and innovating on their behalf. I mean, that was sort of our priority one, two and three. And that's what you see in their sessions growth, engagement growth, their quality member growth. And obviously that all translates into the revenue growth as well across all of the marketing solutions, talent solutions, and sales solutions."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We also, during that one year, done integrations. You see it. I see it every day in my Outlook Mobile. I see it in Sales Navigator and Dynamics. And so, you will see us \u00e2\u20ac\u201c with Windows 10, so you'll see us continue to do these integrations that add value again to both the Microsoft 365 and Dynamics users, as well as LinkedIn members."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And clearly that's increasing engagement as well and that obviously then translates into revenue growth of those business solutions we mentioned. So, yes, revenue synergies are showing up, but mostly because product synergies are showing up, and that's because of the product ethos of LinkedIn around member-first is what we have maintained throughout this integration."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And I would also add, Keith, the LinkedIn team has really done a tremendous job. So let me also say, after a year of working with them closely, my appreciation and, frankly, a lot of inspiration that I think you've seen in our own product development has been their focus on users and how important it is and how focused they are on it."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In some of the products, I would urge people to look at the Outlook Mobile experience and how really meaningful the experience is for the user and the member. And I think sometimes it's harder for us to measure exactly what a revenue synergy means. But I think I look at this and say, at a 37% growth rate, plus some of the integrations we've seen and the growth in uses and users of things like Outlook Mobile, I believe that we're probably a little bit on the front end of the revenue synergies you'll see in product over time."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"When it comes to our appetite for M&A, actually it has remained unchanged, which is when things meet our criteria and when we feel like it's in core areas for us, where markets are expanding, where the companies have a unique asset, I think that our ability to both execute on those and see them both execute on their own and execute inside Microsoft, I actually feel quite good that we don't worry about our ability to do them, but I wouldn't say that's new this quarter."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah. And I think just to add on that, which is whether it's Minecraft or LinkedIn or many other acquisitions we've done as part of Azure, I think the key thing that we are very, very focused on is how do we make this culturally accretive, management times accretive as well as revenue. And that's where we are building good muscle and we'll continue on that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Excellent. Thank you very much guys."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Keith. We'll take the next question now please."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Microsoft is a clear leader in cloud security. Advanced AI reasons over hundreds of billions of signals each month to identify anomalies, automate detection and help customers respond to cyber threats. Just last week, we announced new value for customers, Microsoft Secure Score, Attack Simulator and Windows Defender ATP automatic detection and remediation capabilities, as well as a new open API for the Intelligent Security Graph."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of Karl Keirstead with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks. And just to start, Satya and team congrats on getting Microsoft to over 10% organic growth. That's a big achievement for a company at your scale, and it looks like you're expecting the same for the June quarter, so congrats. So I guess, my question is in the spirit of this, to Amy, on the overall growth margin trade-off as you look into fiscal 2019."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Amy, when I go back to the Analyst Day you had almost a year ago, I left thinking that your messaging was really that you were going to press on revenue growth and not on big margin leverage. So I'm just wondering as we look into fiscal 2019, is it correct to assume that that's a similar framework with the focus on top line growth and not to expect much in the way of overall improvement in gross margins? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks, Karl. Yes, I think that's a fair interpretation of my commentary both last year and this, which really speaks to consistency. I do believe that the market that which we are operating, the set of assets we've picked, the team we've built, the investments we made in our sales force, even some extent the acquisitions we've done, these are all showing up as top line revenue growth for us. You see it this quarter. You see it frankly in the guide. And I think your interpretation that our focus on being a growth company, even at our scale, is certainly the right interpretation."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. Thanks for that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Karl. Let's please move to the next question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of Walter Pritchard with Citi. Please proceed with your question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hi, Thank you. I'm wondering, maybe a combination of Amy and Satya, talk about the forward kind of view of Azure growth and how we should think about the drivers of that as we go into 2019. New customers existing consumption, premium services and I think we're growing at eye-popping rates right now. We saw that with Office 365 in the early days. How should we expect this business to sort of level out over time as I think it inevitably will as we look to next year?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah and I'll start qualitatively. And it's true that we are at this point at scale on Azure and with very, very high growth rates. But as I said, I think the key things that we think about is differentiation of Azure at each level because that's what is super important for us as we compete in this marketplace and more importantly double down on areas of differentiation we have."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So the first thing is on the infrastructure side itself with the combination of the edge and the cloud I believe between Azure Stack and Azure as well as inclusive of our servers, we have the best crowd platform for what is going to be hybrid computing and we'll continue to push on that, so you'll see growth. It's just got a different margin profile."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Weve also built compliance capability directly into our cloud services. Thousands of organizations are using the recently launched Compliance Manager with new information protection scanner and built-in classification capability to help prepare for GDPR. Our comprehensive approach and proactive protection are one reason Coca-Cola chose Microsoft cloud for their digital transformation."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The layer above that is the place which we are very excited about. We've seen lots of consecutive quarters of growth in our higher-level services but we're now seeing some good scale. I, for the first time, talked about Cosmos DB. This was actually a database we just launched last year. I mean, I've been around databases for a long time. I've never seen a product that's gotten to this kind of scale this quickly."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And so we're very bullish about what can happen in the higher-level services and we'll continue to build on that piece. But as I said, one of the key things is, architecturally, the way we build Azure, the way we build Office 365, the way we build our gaming cloud and the way we build even Dynamics are all pretty much one architecture."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And you see that even in the way customers use it. So overall to your specific question on Azure, the growth will moderate as the numbers become big, and they've already become very big. But that said, we see plenty of opportunity for total gross margin growth in terms of dollars just because of the number of markets that we participate, in which we by the way, never participated in the old server world."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And, Walter, I think the way you see that show up is really in my conversation on FY 2019, to Satya's point, really we talked about that server product and KPI being high teens through FY 2019. We're really confident in double-digit growth in that PBP segment with the components of Office 365, Dynamics 365 and LinkedIn. So if you think about that as the primary components of our commercial cloud overall, we're certainly saying that it's a big business growing very fast at $6 billion not counting LinkedIn. At 58% growth, it certainly speaks to having a big base and a big growth number."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"On Azure, you're right. It will moderate through next year. But because of the scale at which it's operating, that's why you still see that server KPI remain at that high level even as the base grows. And so you will see also some different dynamics within that Azure revenue number. Satya mentioned the layers of Azure. If you think about the IaaS and PaaS numbers, I would expect to be on the higher end of growth rates. And some of the services that are more per-user like, like EMS within the Azure frame, you would expect that growth to moderate somewhat more quickly just because it's a per-seat business."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"You will actually over time see us be able to continue to add ARPU and growth in those segments. Think of it almost like an Office business. Internally, we call that component part of our Microsoft 365 Value. That's how we sell it externally even. And so hopefully, that helps give a little context to the number as well as our overall ability to continue to grow the sort of hybrid cloud opportunity high teens."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks Walter. We'll take the next question please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of Phil Winslow with Wells Fargo. Please proceed with your question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hey guys, thank you guys for taking my question and congrats on a great quarter. Satya, you touched on the synergies that you're seeing between new applications businesses and LinkedIn helping the two out. Wonder if you could talk just sort of high level and strategically about applications and enterprise applications in Azure, and how you kind of see the synergy potentially coming out between those, especially when you think about Azure AI and all the services, or kind of the question is, how important or how critical are applications like the growth that we're seeing in Dynamics, et cetera?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"One year in, Teams has rapidly become the hub for teamwork. More than 200,000 organizations in 181 markets use Teams from Maersk to General Motors. Teams is now enabled for a broad spectrum of calling and meeting room devices. Were also building AIpowered services into Teams. Weve integrated Microsoft Stream, our enterprise video service, into Teams for transcription and time coding of recorded meetings."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, I mean, one of the things that I talked about in my remarks this time was this power platform. One of the areas of in fact real breakout growth in differentiation as being in Power BI, PowerApps and Flow. For the first time in fact, in our own Microsoft history, we have an extensibility model that is the same for Office 365 and Dynamics 365. This has been a dream of mine for, I don't know, for 15 years probably. And we are finally here and we are executing super well."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"But the interesting thing is it's not just even for our own SaaS applications. It is the extensibility model for every SaaS application out there, including a common data model. So I think that that's where the synergies lie, because AI starts with having a data estate that can really bring data from all of your applications, silos in some sense, together so that you can start doing, building that analytical power that you can then visualize and put in the hands of people using Power BI or run an AI model that does some prediction that you can deploy in your system, whether it's forecasting, sales lead scoring, what have you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So that workflow, we have every layer of it. We have the best deployment tools and development tools in Azure. We have this common data model. On top of this, we have the best BI visualization technology. So that's what you're seeing increasingly as the synergy. But most importantly, architectural benefit for customers because by having incoherence around these layers is where you may feel like you're making some great best-of-breed sort of choices in individual layers, but you'll bear that expense in your overall agility as well as your overall management of your data. And that's where I think we will be very differentiated."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Great, thanks guys."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks. Let's move to the next question please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. The next question is coming from the line of Ross MacMillan with RBC Capital Markets. Okay, we'll move on to the next question which is coming from the line of Brad Reback with Stifel. Please proceed with your question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great, thanks very much. Maybe Amy, quick question. The Windows OEM Pro business has been extraordinarily strong the last few quarters. Could you maybe give us a sense of how penetrated you guys are in the Windows 10 corporate upgrade cycle and the sustainability of that growth? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Thanks Brad. Let me, first, I wouldn't say penetration is the word for this. Let me talk about this in two or even a couple of components, because when you think about Windows 10, what we've seen over the past couple of years is, you're right, a very strong enterprise deployment cycle and real pull for that product inside enterprises, because of the security value prop of the product itself."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"When you see that deployment for security reasons, an externality of that is people often choose to upgrade machines in that process. We've seen good demand inside commercial entities for and when they make those upgrades to buy Windows PCs and often Surface devices, in that choice, I think it's benefited our OEM partners and us. The portfolio of devices that are available are incredibly compelling. I think our partners have done a terrific job on that as well."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The overall economy is certainly also quite good, and the installed base had actually gotten older. And so I think what you're starting to see is a process whereby there's a great product, there's a good macro environment. And you've got customers who really want to move to a modern infrastructure. A modern infrastructure has to both be secure at its very core, and that can result, as you're seeing through that confluence of events, in a very strong PC market with very strong Pro performance. And certainly, the guide for Q4 continues to imply all those factors."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Weve added new facial recognition capabilities, which will attribute remarks to specific meeting attendees. And we are adding new Cortana capability to make calls, join a meeting or initiate three-way calling just using your voice."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Great. Thanks very much."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Brad. We'll take next question now, please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Our next question is coming from the line of Michael Nemeroff with Credit Suisse. Please proceed with your question."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks for taking my question. Satya or Amy, can you help us understand the large revenue outperformance and guide for continued strong growth in gaming? And Amy, could you please give us a sense of the margin profile of the areas of gaming that exceeded expectations? And if you could also comment on the strength of the MPC margin in the context of the gaming margin as well, that would be helpful. Thank you very much."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yeah, I can start and then, yeah."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Why don't you start."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Because even on gaming, very much like how we talk about some of our commercial segments, we've gotten a strategy which sort of really helps us articulate both the growth opportunity as well as our investments across all of the various layers."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So first is, the console itself is the highest engagement console out in the marketplace. So anytime a new game, whether it's first-party or third-party releases, the fact that Xbox is where the best engagement is driven benefits us. So as a platform owner, that's a great growth area for us. But we don't stop there because now we have, whether it's Xbox Live, whether it's Game Pass or Mixer, these are all additional opportunities to really serve the gamer as they play more games or watch games on different platforms. So that's the other big opportunity."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"But the last one, which I think is new and is something which is already paying its dividends on the Azure growth side, is we've taken all the knowledge of what it means to build any one of these first-party titles of ours and building it as a PaaS service in Azure for game developers, and the PlayFab acquisition speaks directly to that. So those are all the various levers we have in gaming. And you'll see it in the MPC segment and you'll see it, as I said, increasingly over time even on Azure."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And I think, Michael, if you don't mind, I'm going to expand your question a little bit, because I don't think the increase in the MPC guide is simply gaming. So let me talk a bit about the components and which ones, I think, are a bit more sustainable and which ones may have a temporal nature to them."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"All this innovation is driving customer usage. Windows 10 continues to gain traction in the enterprise, with Windows 10 commercial monthly active devices up 79% year-over-year. Office 365 commercial now has more than 135 million monthly active users, and Office 365 consumer subscribers increased to 30.6 million."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The performance in Q3 and the guidance for Q4 shows actually strong performance in a number of places that we expect to continue. OEM Pro is a terrific example, for the reasons I just gave in Brad's question. Windows commercial, which is really the business inside the enterprise of selling much of the security value on a far more annuity-like basis, we've seen strong double-digit billings growth there and we expect that to continue into Q4 as well."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The next piece that I would say is a part of that sort of uplift in Q4 is our Surface device. The reception to Surface Book 2 as well as Surface Pro with LTE has been quite good. And you see us reflect that again in Q4 even as the comparable gets a little bit more difficult than it was in Q3 for us when you saw a very large growth rate. We're still expecting high teens there."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Then you get to that gaming component, and specifically what Satya was talking about, the Xbox software and services component is where I would expect to see the impact of the continuation of Q3. Part of that, I want to be very clear, is consistent even going back a few quarters. That has been a double-digit grower. It will be a double-digit grower. There'll be some volatility in the number like anything else. And third-party hit games will move it higher as they did this quarter, and we're expecting in Q4. But there's also a really strong base to that business that is the result of what Satya's talking about in terms of having a vibrant platform with fans that believe in it and come to it with all the value that's been added."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"That's very helpful. Thank you very much."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So did that help? Okay, great. Thanks."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Michael. We'll move to the next question, please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. The next question is from the line of Ross MacMillan with RBC Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks so much. Hopefully, the line is clear this time. So Satya and Amy, I wanted to ask about server products which was striking growth this quarter, given the comp. And, Amy, you talked about expected strength into fiscal Q4 and all of that, I guess, is testament to the strength of the kind of hybrid leadership you have. But the two questions though were really, is that strength in server products broad-based across Windows Server, SQL Server, System Center, et cetera? Or is there any sort of bias in the mix, if you will, in terms of what's driving that strength?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And then, Satya, you mentioned Cosmos DB and that was a striking number to me as well. And I was just curious, do you think now you have the multi-model database in market that can help you take market share within the data management database space? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah. I mean, I'll take the second one. I think that, yes, I mean, Cosmos DB's pretty unique capability in combination with everything else we do in both the data layer, the AI layer and the infrastructure layer, I think we have a tremendous opportunity, because, as I said, this AI era is mostly first a data era. And that's where I think the opportunity lies."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now I'll turn to LinkedIn and business applications. From the start, we recognized the opportunity for LinkedIn and Microsoft to combine forces to create economic opportunity for every member of the global workforce and enable professionals to be more productive and successful. A little over one year in, we feel great about the value we are delivering for members, customers and shareholders."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"But to your previous question, even there, there are multiple trends here, and Amy referenced it in her remarks, which is for example, virtualization still continues to be a growth driver of server products. The other growth driver of server products is cybersecurity and the security value in our servers. So that's one."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The fact that we now have SQL and, for example, when you think about SQL itself, it's a hybrid product. You can tier SQL databases with the cloud. SQL is an AI product because we have the one database that actually allows you to write Python and R in situ, store procedures right in your database."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So, for example, when we talk about data and AI close to data, because computation will always go wherever data is. And a lot of data shows up in relational databases and we have a growth driver there as well. And then there is the hybrid choices, where if somebody's building a smart factory, they're now looking and saying, what is the server I deploy in the factory to manage the millions of sensors that are there across the factory. And that's where Azure Stack shows up. So multiple drivers of what is essentially the server and cloud number in combination."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And to your point on the component, the on-prem component, even with comparable doing well, let me break Satya's comment into sort of two drivers that have been actually more sustaining. And it's across both Windows in particular, but also SQL, which are obviously the largest products within our server portfolio."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The first exactly with hybrid demand. We have something called Azure Hybrid Benefits. What it does is really provide confidence to our committed customers buying on-prem servers that their transition to a hybrid, to cloud over a period of their agreement, is really about their choices, their timelines and their confidence. And so, with that right, it lets them easily transition between Windows or SQL to those same benefits in Azure with a small uplift in price. I think that has actually been a core component."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The second one was the virtualization drive or data center modernization, another one, do move the premium mix up a bit. So that's, if you wanted to break it down into two more sustaining things, those are the types of things we're seeing in that number."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Great. Thanks. And this will be our last question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Our final question is coming from the line of Kash Rangan with Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Please proceed with your question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Last question will be the longest one; really, really long. Thank you guys for getting me in. A question for you, Satya. As you meet with CEOs of large companies, this is a recurring theme that we've been hearing from other software company CEOs, the theme of digitization. Can you help us to understand, especially given that Microsoft's growth rate is accelerating whereas the GDP growth rate is the GDP growth rate."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So obviously, tech spending or IT spending as a percentage of GDP or average company revenue is going higher. So can you help us, given your perspective, which is pretty unique, help us understand what is the baseline of IT that we've been operating in, when it comes to digital business transformation, what are the phase 1, phase 2, phase 3 initiatives like and where are companies likely to spend more? And what kinds of products and services that are new and upcoming or maybe you sell them today that comprise that incremental swing factor over the baseline of what IT is today versus wherever we're likely to go with the digitization of business processes? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our integration model has enabled LinkedIn to accelerate growth, while retaining its member-first ethos. Results are ahead of expectations across all lines of business with revenue growth of 37% year-over-year. We saw record levels of engagement again this quarter with sessions growth of more than 30% year-over-year, driven by innovation across the platform. This increased engagement is driving strong demand for sponsored content and marketing solutions and record levels of job postings and job visitors again this quarter in Talent Solutions."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yeah, I mean, I think when we talk to customers and CDOs, CEOs, what have you, we talk about four digital transformational outcomes. In fact, everything that we do across our solution areas are all ingredients to helping our customers achieve digital transformation objectives on, for example, how do they engage their customers. When I talked about Cosmos DB growth, Cosmos DB happens to be one of the best database products to be able to capture the signals that you want around your customers from a variety of different sources. That's gone one example of it."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The second piece is of course around empowering your employees. I mean, one of the things that now has increasingly become a number one priority for every CEO is to make sure that the right tools, the right products are in front of their own employees so that they can do their very best work and collaborate. So teams grow. There's a great example of how companies are modernizing their workforce with things like Microsoft 365."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The third one is operational efficiency. When you see the Dynamics 365 growth or Azure IoT growth, taking every IoT project, it ends up as a field service project, so that's a classic way somebody says, let me sense something, predict something and then actually fix using field service. So that's a transformational outcome where we're very well positioned."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And lastly, people are changing their business models. You take somebody like a Nalco Water. You could say they're a water company, but now they're pure water service company. In other words, they put sensors that allow them to actually deliver a very differentiated business model to their customers. And so that's the transformational outcomes we see. And we feel, at Microsoft, we're well positioned both with the technology but also with our frontline sales capability, service capability and partner capacity to best address the digital transformation needs."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Wonderful. It seems like CRM, HCM, ERP, IoT, these are the predominant themes that are going to be driving your growth. Thank you very much. Very useful, insightful."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Kash. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Thank you for joining us, and we look forward to speaking with all of you soon. You can find additional details at the Microsoft Investor Relations website."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, everyone."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you, everyone."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's teleconference. Again, we thank you for your participation, and you may disconnect your lines at this time."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Shifting to business applications. Dynamics 365 is gaining traction as our third commercial cloud growth engine, up 65% this quarter. We unleashed a wave of AI innovation in Dynamics with hundreds of new capabilities to transform sales and automate marketing, with Office 365 embedded inside Dynamics for productivity."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Relationship analytics for sales and marketing leverage the Microsoft Graph and data from social networks to improve customer relationships, and predictive lead scoring helps sellers identify and focus on high-quality leads."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and Carolyn Frantz, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Were investing in our business applications platform capabilities across Power BI, PowerApps, Flow and a common data model. Now customers can extend Dynamics 365 and Office 365 and quickly build applications using data from across the organization as well as third-party data with minimal custom code."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The new power platform enables customers like Inter Cars, a leading European auto parts company, to go from paper to digitized workflows within days versus months. With the rapid growth of Power BI, we are now the leader in business analytics in the cloud."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now I'll turn to infrastructure and AI platforms. Our architectural advantage of a consistent stack from the cloud to the edge is resonating with customers, with Azure revenue growth of 93% this quarter. Recent CIO surveys affirm our leadership position in hybrid, developer productivity, trusted security and compliance and new workloads such as IoT and AI at the edge."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We have made the right investment decisions and theyre having an impact, increasing our overall share in an expanding market. Our recent data center expansion, including the United Arab Emirates and Switzerland, brings our total number of regions to 50, more than any other cloud provider, and the additional availability zones provide the most comprehensive resiliency in the industry."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We also continue to see strong customer demand for Azure Stack across industries, and its unlocking new workload scenarios across hybrid and edge. Industrial IoT is transforming the rules of manufacturing, fueling cloud and edge innovation, accelerating the evolution of digital factories and enhancing supply chain performance. Azure IoT and Azure Stack enable customers and partners to build industrial IoT solutions that run at the edge, so operators on the factory floor can manage devices and analyze data in real-time. And HoloLens is quickly becoming an indispensable tool as we take digital twin technology to the next level."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Were also innovating in silicon to help customers realize the promise of a connected world of devices and things. Our just announced Azure Sphere is a first of its kind highly secure edge solution that combines chip design and IoT operating system and a cloud service to secure more than 9 billion microcontroller-powered devices entering the market each year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And were already seeing rapid customer adoption of IoT scenarios. Toyota Material Handling in Europe is using Azure as well as HoloLens to create a factory of the future. Using AI, drones learn complex processes to automate the flow of a factory, increasing supply chain and warehouse efficiency. And Microsoft and ABB are partnering to push the boundaries of smart manufacturing for industrial automation."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Were investing to make Azure the best cloud for enterprise data estates. In less than a year, Azure Cosmos DB, the first globally distributed multimodal and multi-model database, exceeded $100 million in annualized revenue. Azure database for MySQL and PostgreSQL makes it even easier to bring open source powered applications to Azure, expanding our opportunity in this space. We are seeing a rapid adoption of Azure Databricks for data preparation, advanced analytics and machine learning scenarios."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We continue to innovate to democratize AI. More than 1 million developers have already used Cognitive Services to quickly and easily create AI applications, and we have more services than any other cloud provider. Our Azure Bot Service has nearly 300,000 developers, up more than 150% year-over-year. Microsoft Translator brings AI-powered translation to developers where their data is, whether it's in the cloud or on the edge."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And just last month, we reached human parity in language translation, a new milestone in addition to our previous human parity achievements in object recognition, speech recognition and machine reading comprehension."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"On the Microsoft Investor Relations website, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call and provides a reconciliation of differences between the GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Were also gaining traction in machine learning tools adoption with tens of thousands of customers using Azure ML. Finally, we are innovating with new GPU and FPGA-based offerings to lead in AI infrastructure for both training and inference. Im excited to share more about our cloud and AI innovation at our developer conference next month at Build."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now, to gaming. We continue to pursue our expansive opportunity in gaming from the way games are created and distributed to how they are played and viewed. We had one of the best quarters in gaming with strong revenue performance and record levels of engagement. Software and services revenue grew 24% as we continued to attract, retain and deepen user relationships across Xbox Live, Game Pass and Mixer."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Xbox Live monthly active users grew to 59 million, up 13%. Our new first-party game, Sea of Thieves, drove gameplay across Windows 10 and Xbox One in addition to nearly 10 million hours of viewing on services like Mixer in its very first week."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our results speak to the strength of our platform and services for both first-party and thirdparty experiences. And we'll continue to invest in our platform, enhancing our cloud services with AI capabilities for developers to quickly build and monetize games across PC, console and mobile."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In closing, intelligent cloud and intelligent edge represents a tremendous opportunity for our customers. It comes with a responsibility to ensure trust in technology. We are working to instill this trust in three key areas. The first is privacy. We recognize that privacy is a fundamental human right, and we have consistently acted accordingly."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our success is grounded in our customers' success. We have been working towards the May 25th GDPR implementation date since 2016 with hundreds of engineers across the company working on end-to-end privacy architecture, and we'll ensure that all our products and services are GDPR compliant."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"For customers, we will provide robust tools backed by our contractual commitments to help them comply with GDPR. In fact, for most customers it will be more effective and less costly to host their data in Microsoft's GDPR-compliant cloud than to develop and maintain GDPR compliance tools themselves."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Second, cybersecurity. In response to escalating cyber attacks around the world, we are leading a bold initiative to defend and protect our customers. We recently led a coalition of 34 global technology and security companies in signing the Cybersecurity Tech Accord. The accord is an important first step by the industry to help create a safer and more secure online environment for everyone."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Finally, we recently established the AI and Ethics in Engineering and Research Committee at Microsoft to ensure we always advance AI in an ethical and responsible way to benefit our customers and the broader society. This includes new investments in technology to detect and address bias in AI systems. Microsoft stands for trust, and this will continue to be a differentiating focus for us moving forward."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"With that, I'll hand it over to Amy to cover our financial results in more detail and share our outlook. And I look forward to rejoining for your questions."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Unless otherwise specified, we refer to non-GAAP metrics on the call. The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the company's third quarter performance in addition to the impact that these items and events had on the financial results."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon, everyone. Our third quarter revenue was $26.8 billion, up 16% and 13% in constant currency, with better than expected performance across all segments. Gross margin increased 16% and 13% in constant currency. Operating income increased 23% and 20% in constant currency. Earnings per share was $0.95, increasing 36% and 31% in constant currency."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"From a geographic perspective, we saw broad-based strength across markets of all sizes, benefiting from the positive global corporate IT spend environment. Growth in cloud services increased our commercial annuity mix, up 2 points year-over-year to 89%. Along with healthy renewals, our sales teams and partners drove a higher volume of new business, leading to commercial bookings growth of 26% and 18% in constant currency. Commercial unearned came in slightly above our expectations due to FX, growing 20% and 17% in constant currency."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Commercial cloud revenue was $6 billion, increasing 58% and 55% in constant currency, highlighted by healthy growth in the U.S., Western Europe and the UK. We again improved commercial cloud gross margin, now at 57%, up 6 points, with improvement in each cloud service, most notably Azure."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We outperformed our expectation on company gross margin, finishing the quarter at 65%. We are up slightly year-over-year with improvement in our Productivity and Business Processes segment from Office 365 commercial and LinkedIn, offset by a decline in our intelligent cloud segment, driven by a greater mix of Azure revenue."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"FX positively impacted revenue growth by 1 point more than expected, 3 points at the company and Productivity and Business Processes level and 2 points on both intelligent cloud and More Personal Computing. FX added 2 points of growth to COGS and operating expenses, 1 point more than expected."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Operating expenses grew 10% and 8% in constant currency as we continued to invest in commercial sales capacity, cloud engineering, and LinkedIn. Even with this accelerated pace of spend, we increased operating margin 2 points year-over-year, a direct result of our focused investments to drive top line growth."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now, to the segment results. Revenue from Productivity and Business Processes was approximately $9 billion, increasing 17% and 14% in constant currency, with better than expected results from Office 365 commercial and LinkedIn."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Office commercial revenue grew double digits again this quarter, up 14% and 12% in constant currency, including a couple points from a greater mix of contracts with higher inperiod recognition. Office 365 commercial revenue grew 42% and 40% in constant currency, with continued installed base growth and ARPU expansion driven by customer migration to our premium workloads in E3 and E5. Office 365 commercial seats grew 28%, in line with the expected trend, given the increasing size of the installed base."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Office consumer revenue increased 12% and 9% in constant currency, driven by recurring subscription revenue and a growing overall installed base. Our Dynamics business accelerated this quarter, growing 17% and 14% in constant currency, driven by Dynamics 365 growth of 65%, 62% in constant currency. LinkedIn revenue grew 37% and 33% in constant currency, with more than $1.3 billion in revenue."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We continued to see outperformance across all segments, with record levels of engagement. Segment gross margin dollars increased 18% and 15% in constant currency. Gross margin percentage increased with margin improvements in Office 365 commercial and LinkedIn offsetting the increased mix of cloud revenue. Operating expenses grew 14% and 12% in constant currency as we continued to strategically invest in LinkedIn commercial sales capacity and cloud engineering. Operating income increased 23% and 19% in constant currency."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless otherwise noted. We will also provide growth rates in constant currency when available as a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. Where growth rates are the same in constant currency, we refer to the growth rate only."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The intelligent cloud segment delivered $7.9 billion of revenue, increasing 17% and 15% in constant currency, exceeding expectations due to our on-premises server business."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Server products and cloud services revenue grew 20% and 17% in constant currency to $6.3 billion, driven by continued strong Azure revenue growth of 93%, 89% in constant currency on a significant revenue base."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our on-premises server business grew 3% and 1% in constant currency, driven by customer demand for hybrid solutions as well as increasing virtualization needs, resulting in the uptake of premium versions."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Enterprise Services revenue increased 8% and 5% in constant currency, with growth in premium support services and Microsoft Consulting Services more than offsetting the continued decline in custom support agreements for Windows Server 2003."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Segment gross margin dollars grew 16% and 14% in constant currency, and gross margin percentage declined with the growing mix of Azure IaaS and PaaS revenue mostly offset by another quarter of material improvement in Azure gross margin."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Operating expenses increased 9% and 7% in constant currency, driven by our continued investment in sales capacity and cloud engineering Operating income increased 24% up investment in sales capacity and cloud engineering. Operating income increased 24%, up 21% in constant currency."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now to the results of More Personal Computing. Revenue from the segment was $9.9 billion, up 13% and 11% in constant currency, with significantly better than expected results in gaming, Windows commercial and Surface."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Windows OEM revenue increased 4% this quarter. OEM Pro revenue grew 11%, in line with a strong commercial PC market. We continued to see healthy enterprise demand for Windows 10, benefiting our OEM partners."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"OEM non-Pro revenue declined this quarter by 8%, below the consumer PC market, driven by a higher mix of lower-priced licenses and continued pressure in the entry-level price category. Inventory levels were within the normal range."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Windows commercial products and cloud services increased 21% and 17% in constant currency from strong double digit billings as well as a higher mix of in-quarter recognition from multiyear agreements."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We'll post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript to the Microsoft Investors Relations website."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The fundamentals of this business remained healthy, with installed base growth and adoption of our security solutions. As a reminder, under Accounting Standard 606, the Windows commercial growth rate will have significant variability quarter-to-quarter due to its relatively high mix of on-premises licensing revenue."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Search revenue ex TAC grew 16% and 14% in constant currency with higher revenue per search and search volume driven by Bing performance in the U.S. and international markets."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Surface revenue grew 32% and 27% in constant currency with better than expected performance from Surface Book as we continued to transition to the latest products in our portfolio and against a prior year comparable impacted by product end-of-lifecycle dynamics."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Gaming revenue increased 18% and 16% in constant currency due to Xbox software and services revenue growth of 24% and 21% in constant currency. Momentum in digital distribution as well as record levels of engagement driven by a third-party title contributed to better than expected software and services revenue."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We grew Xbox Live monthly active users by 13% to 59 million with user expansion across Xbox One, Windows 10 and mobile platforms."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Segment gross margin dollars increased 13% and 11% in constant currency, in line with revenue growth. Segment gross margin percentage was relatively flat year-on-year. Operating expenses increased 5% and 3% in constant currency from investments in engineering across gaming, search and AI. Operating income grew 24% and 20% in constant currency."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now back to the total company results. In line with our expectations, we increased capital expenditures on a sequential basis with $3.5 billion invested to support current and future growth of our cloud offerings. Cash paid for plant, property and equipment was $2.9 billion. Cash flow from operations was up 14%, driven by collections from strong billings growth."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Free cash flow of $9.2 billion grew at a slower rate, 3%, due to an increasing cash used for property, plant and equipment. Other income and expenses was approximately $350 million from net recognized gains on investments and income from dividends and interest, partially offset by interest expense. Our effective tax rate came in at 14% due to a benefit from an R&D tax credit."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We returned $6.3 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, increasing total shareholder return by 37%. We nearly doubled our year-over-year amount buyback, accelerating our pace from the prior quarter and now have roughly $30 billion remaining of our current $40 billion share repurchase authorization."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now let's turn to next quarter's outlook. First on FX. Assuming current rates remain stable,we expect FX to increase revenue growth by 3 points, COGS by 1 point and operating expenses by 1 point."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subjects to risks and uncertainties."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Second, we again expect strong performance from our commercial business, with solid execution in our largest quarter of the year. We expect commercial unearned revenue to be up 38% to 39% sequentially."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Third on CapEx. We expect sequential growth in capital expenditures on an accrual dollar basis, as we continue to see strong demand signals globally."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Finally, we expect commercial cloud gross margin to be roughly flat to Q3, representing another quarter of material year-over-year improvement even with increasing Azure revenue mix."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now to the segments. In Productivity and Business Processes, we expect revenue between $9.55 billion and $9.75 billion. We expect Office commercial growth rates to normalize as we do not expect the same level of in-quarter recognition on multiyear contracts as we saw in Q3. Dynamics should see another quarter of double-digit revenue growth, driven by Dynamics 365 and LinkedIn growth should remain high."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In Intelligent Cloud, we expect revenue between $8.95 billion and $9.15 billion, with another quarter of server products and cloud services revenue growth in the high teens as our hybrid cloud leadership continues to be a differentiator for customers. We expect the total Azure revenue growth to reflect the balance of our continued strength in infrastructure, data and application services and a moderating growth in our per user base services like EMS."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In More Personal Computing, we expect $10.3 billion to $10.6 billion. Across both OEM Pro and non-Pro, we anticipate trends in Q3 to continue into Q4. In our devices business, we expect Surface revenue growth in the high teens, as we continue to transition to the latest products in our portfolio. Search ex TAC should see another mid-teens revenue growth quarter as it has the entire year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In gaming, we expect a higher revenue growth rate than Q3, as we continue to benefit from third-party game title performance and user engagement on our platform. We expect COGS between $9.6 billion and $9.8 billion, including 1 point of growth from FX. We expect operating expenses of $9.8 billion to $9.9 billion, with 1 point of growth from FX. This would place us slightly above the high end of our prior range for the full year operating expense growth due to the impact from FX and incremental revenue-driven expenses that support our continued strong top line growth."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In Q4, we expect other income and expense to be approximately $350 million as we continue to take gains on our equities portfolio and earn dividend and interest income as we have in prior quarters. We expect our effective tax rate in Q4 to be approximately 16%, with some volatility in the final quarter of our fiscal year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Finally, I want to offer a few early thoughts on FY 2019. Assuming the macro environment remains consistent, many of the key drivers of our business should remain intact. Revenue growth will continue to be driven by the transition to cloud services. And within our commercial business, strong execution and our differentiated hybrid position should drive continued high teens growth in our server product and cloud services revenue KPI."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Office 365, Dynamics 365 and LinkedIn should also continue to drive double-digit revenue growth in our Productivity and Business Processes segment. The gross margin percentage of every commercial cloud service will continue to improve, with more improvement in Azure IaaS and PaaS consumption-based services and less improvement in our per user SaaS services."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during the conference call and in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K, Forms 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"While we expect continued improvement in the overall commercial cloud gross margin, the revenue mix shift to Azure will moderate the rate of improvement relative to FY 2018. We will continue to grow our investment and capital expenditures to meet the growing demand for our cloud services."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"With the business results we've delivered and the tremendous opportunities we see ahead, we will continue to see growth in operating expenses in key areas we've discussed, including LinkedIn."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"We expect other income and expenses to be slightly negative in FY 2019 as we don't expect to have any significant equity gains."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"And lastly, we continue to expect the full year FY 2019 effective tax rate to be slightly below the new U.S. corporate tax rate of 21%, with variability across the quarters due to the mix of cloud versus license revenue and the timing of equity vests. And with that, Mike, let's go to Q&A."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Amy. We'll now move over to Q&A. Operator, can you please repeat your instructions?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Ladies and gentlemen, at this time we be will conducting the question-and-answer session. Our first question is coming from the line of Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Thank you, Satya and Amy. You guys are seeing a really nice acceleration in intelligent cloud gross profit growth. And with 15 straight quarters now of triple-digit premium services growth in Azure, I know you mentioned some comments directionally about the gross margin ramp. But how do we think about the pace of the ramp in gross margin expansion from here for this, for Azure in particular, as you approach what we estimate to be roughly an $8 billion business in annualized revenue? And I guess the other thing that would be helpful is when you think of the COGS of commercial cloud, can you give us a rough ballpark of what percentage of COGS comes from CapEx depreciation? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So maybe I'll start and then I'll have you, Amy, go into sort of the numbers. One of the things, Heather, that's happening is there is growth in Azure across each of the layers. And I think I've said this before. Sometimes, when you have new workloads and new customers onboard, they start with in some sense the IaaS and the data more at Blob storage, but then scale to higher layer services like our Cosmos DB or even some of our compute higher-level services like in AI."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So that I think will continue, because we're still in the early innings of the cloud transition. We're investing aggressively, whether it's on the field side or on the CapEx side to attract more customers and more workloads per customer. So they will have that same profile, which is lower-margin services first, higher-margin services over time. That's just inside of Azure. And of course, you combine that with the rest. One of the things that I think should be fairly clear is the high correlation between our services in Office 365 as well as Dynamics 365 around data in particular with Azure. So that's why we think of this as one cloud play but that should give you a feel for how the customers are looking at it."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And I think to your specific questions, there were a couple in there, Heather. If you think about the portion of our commercial cloud gross margins that come from depreciation, it's best to think of it as roughly half. And actually it's been going up as we began to get scale through these services over time actually. Some of the fixed costs, frankly, even in COGS, tend to come down as a percentage over time. So that should help you roughly to think about how much depreciation is at that number."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you, Mike, and thanks to everyone on the phone for joining. It was another strong quarter, the result of picking the right secular trends, delivering differentiated innovation and focused execution that results in increased engagement and usage. The intelligent cloud and the intelligent edge era is already upon us. It represents a tremendous opportunity.We took significant steps this quarter to put this at the forefront of everything we do, realigning our entire engineering organization to accelerate innovation and better serve the needs of customers and partners."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now, if you think about some of the dynamics that we've been going through in the intelligent cloud segment, in particular the way I tend to think about that, as you've seen, we're now 20% growth this quarter in that server and product services KPI, 17% on a constant currency basis, and are sort of confident that you should continue to see that, as I said, into Q4 and then into FY 2019 as well."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I tend to think about that as we'll have significant revenue growth in that segment. We'll have significant gross margin dollar growth in that segment, and you'll actually continue to see operating margin dollar growth that's significant in that segment even as we reinvest into it, given the top line signal."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"If you think about gross margins in particular, what you'll see is Azure continuing to be a growing percentage of the total revenue growth. So even with significant improvement again in, what Satya was talking about, some of the lower level IaaS and PaaS services within Azure, on the gross margin side you'll see some gross margin percentage pressure in that segment through 2019, but with significant dollar growth."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you very much, and congrats on the quarter. CapEx increased significantly this quarter, $2.9 billion you said in cash on property and equipment. We know that you build out \u00e2\u20ac\u201c you significantly invest in the data center footprint ahead of demand, but you don't build out the equipment itself that far in advance. Is there a large corporate or government requirement or is it the acceleration in the new data centers that ended up causing that lift? Or is there something else driving it? And as a follow-up, how should we think about that for the next couple quarters? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks, Mark. I actually didn't think of it as a significant change in trajectory from what we expected. A year ago, Q3 was actually a little low. So on the year-over-year basis, I think it pops a little bit, Mark, when on really a sequential basis I actually don't think, to me, it looks out of sorts, especially with the type of demand we're seeing, not just for Azure, but across all of the cloud components. Those growth rates really at 58% on that total cloud number, it's pretty good demand signal on a global basis. So I hear you on a year-over-year basis, but Q3 was a little funny a year ago on that front."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And we continue to really monitor the actual equipment in that supply chain and what have you. And if anything, there's a lot of automation and demand sensing capability we have there."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah. And I would say, Mark, while I appreciate your point that it takes \u00e2\u20ac\u201c and we do build data centers in advance, the majority of the cost obviously in a data center is in the equipment inside. And so, while this really is \u00e2\u20ac\u201c the majority of this spend is servers."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Perfect. Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Mark. Operator, can we please move to next question?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The next question is coming from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Tesla, Inc. Q4 2018 Financial Results and Q&A Webcast. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session, and instructions will follow at that time. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I'm not sure. I think Model T was a little bit slower, but I'm not 100% sure."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Well, we need to bring the Shanghai factory online. I think that's the biggest driver for getting to 500K plus a year. Our car is just very expensive going into China. We've got import duties. We've got transport costs. We've got higher-cost labor here. And we've never been eligible for any of the EV tax credits. A lot of people sort of dependent on incentives. In fact, we are [indiscernible] EVs, we have the least access to incentives. It's pretty crazy because there's so many companies that - countries that have put price caps on the EV incentive, which affects Tesla. And in China, which is the biggest market for EVs, we've never had any subsidies or tax incentives for vehicles."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So it's - it is eligible for that. But it sounds like that's going to be reducing in China in the coming years. But, really, bottom line is, we need the Shanghai factory to achieve that 10k rate and other cars be affordable."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The demand for - the demand for Model 3 is insanely high. The inhibitor is affordability. It's just like people literally don't have the money to buy the car. It's got nothing to do with desire. They just don't have enough money in their bank account. If the car can be made more affordable, the demand is extraordinary."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from Pierre Ferragu with New Street Research."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So, Deepak, I was wondering, so as you get to 2019, we're all concerned about the potential recession, and I was wondering how you think about it and what you would tell us about what we should expect - how we should expect Tesla to react to recession in 2019. How do you manage your volume land? How do you manage your pricing? How do you present cash? How do you manage your CapEx if things turn south in 2019? And then I have a follow-up on gross margin for Jerome."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, it's a very broad question, which is not really just for me to answer. But I think at the highest level, the way we are trying to be prepared for any kind of contingency here is to just continue focusing on cost. And the theme of our conversations here is, how do we reduce cost all the time? And how do we run our business with a very high level of financial discipline? And Elon alluded to that and so did Jerome - Jerome, I think. That - if we do that, we believe that even in some of the scenarios of lower volumes and pricing - tight pricing, we do have a good chance and a good shot of being profitable and generate free cash flow. So that's the best way to manage the business, be frugal."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, I don't want to be a broken record about this, it's costs, costs, costs, because reducing our costs - by the way, while making improvements to Model 3, I want to emphasize, the product is getting better by slight degrees despite lower costs in hundreds of small ways. But you actually wouldn't notice explicitly, but they would appreciate subconsciously. And getting those costs down, variable costs and fixed costs, is what allows us to lower the price and be financially sustainable and achieve our mission of environmental sustainability. So we have to be absolute clear about this. There's no question."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The other aspect of this, Elon, which we've been doing extremely well, is capital efficiency. We have dramatically cut back on capital expense, and we are spending it in a very efficient manner. We talked about it in the letter on Model 3 and Gigafactory Shanghai. We talked about it for Model Y. There are just so many learnings that we are incorporating, and we just want to beat what we did with Model 3 and the kind of spending we had for the returns we got."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Absolutely. I mean, we're confident that our CapEx per unit of production for Shanghai factory and for Model Y will be less than half of what we did for Model 3. Internally, we think it might be a quarter but that's probably too good to believe, but it's definitely less than half."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from David Tamberrino with Goldman Sachs."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Okay. And we expect that exponential to continue. So with the deliveries this year being - even in the face of - if there's a global recession - even if there's a global recession, we're expecting deliveries this year to be about 50% higher than last year. And this - it could be a lot more than that. But even with tough economic times, to see 50% growth is pretty nutty."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"First thing I want to just understand is on what you're seeing from European orders and China orders so far. There are some numbers that get thrown around, but you guys are obviously taking a look at it. How is that order profile shaping up relative to what you saw in the U.S. with the launch of the 3?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I think it seems good. I mean, our share actually with Europe and China is, how do we get the cars made and on a boat as such that it reaches customers before end of quarter and we don't have a massive number of cars on the water. That's our biggest challenge. It's not demand. It's how do we get the cars there fast enough."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"So like orders above, I think I've seen like 20,000 order levels for Europe and single-digit thousands for China is better than that, Elon?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Yes, absolutely. The - I mean, we're not even really trying, I should point out. I guess it's - we - our factory is like, right now, only making cars for China and Europe. That's all it's doing for - with respect to Model 3. And our whole focus is, okay, how do we get those cars made, get them on a ship as fast as possible, get the ship as fast as possible to Zeebrugge in Belgium then get them over to Drammen in Norway and get those cars to customers as fast as possible. We get them to China as fast as possible."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"In China, we were also - yes, we don't what's going to happen with the trade negotiations. So that's very important to get those cars especially to China as soon as possible. We hope the trade negotiations go well, but it's not clear. But we need to get them there while there's sort of a de facto - sort of a truce on the tariff war. And the demand gen is really not one of the things we're thinking about."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. Then just lastly on this demand thread, customer deposit came in again over $100 million. Is it possible to give us an update? I know you don't think it's really a relevant number but I do want to know. Explain why on the reservation count, where you were 450,000, you started delivering. And I ask this because I think we're just all trying to understand how much incremental demand you think there is based on what you see at that lower price point if, say, there's over half of those people that are still waiting for that 75k base model to come out. That would be interesting, and I think that's what you're seeing but I just want to confirm that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So Deepak, do you want to..."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Yes, I mean, I think reservations are not relevant for us. We are really focused on orders. Now we do have a large reservations backlog still, which tells us that a lot of customers are still waiting for those cars, but I don't think it's appropriate to share the reservations number."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Reservations are just like preorders. It's like here - like some video game come out and there's like a preorder number, then that's like - stops being important once you start shipping the game or product. So yes, as I said earlier, I think - my guess is demand is somewhere on the order - in a strong economy is on the order of 700,000 or 800,000 units a year for Model 3 and even in a recession is probably on the order of 0.5 million."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from Daniel Ives with Wedbush Securities."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"For Q4, we achieved GAAP profitability, the second quarter for the first time in the company history, and we increased our cash on hand by more than $700 million, even after paying debt [in EMEA] [ph] with the total of $3.7 billion of cash. This means we have enough cash to settle our convertible bond that will mature in March."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So my question is around Europe. Obviously, with deliveries coming onboard in the first quarter, maybe what surprised you in terms of - your demand looks strong, but in terms of what you're seeing at the region, is it stronger than you expected in certain countries? What do you think is driving that? And maybe you can just talk about the opportunities and challenges in Europe especially from a delivery logistics perspective."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Well, like I said, we're thinking about demand almost zero right now. It's really getting the product there in time and not having a ton of cars on the water and in a quarter and then for China getting cars there before there's a potential rise in tariffs. That's really - put really at front of mind that cost reduction and then improving service in North America, yes."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And just maybe a quick follow-up on - can you just talk about - when we look at the Gigafactory build-out in China and obviously how important that is, can you maybe just fast forward, let's say, 18, 24 months? I mean, how do you envision that as just a competitive advantage versus maybe some other automakers that will be trying to go in your tracks?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I think it will be quite a significant advantage, a really good - it's quite fundamental to the future of Tesla, and I expect to make several trips to China this year. And I'm working very closely with the team building the factory. I literally get daily updates. So it's a super big deal and we're only just talking about Phase 1 here. Phase 1 is about 10% of what we think the Gigafactory will ultimately be. So it's a major, major, major deal. And we're getting a lot of support from the Shanghai government, which we're very appreciative of, and the national government."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from Toni Sacconaghi with Bernstein."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"You've talked repeatedly about the need to drive down costs, which, in turn, drives the elasticity of demand for cars. And I'm wondering if you can talk about how much of a price differential between the $50,000 Model 3 and the $35,000 Model 3 is structural, meaning that powertrain costs for EVs are just structurally higher than they are for internal combustion engine cars. And where do you think that difference is today and when that is no longer a factor? So is - or maybe said another way, is the bigger driver in getting to lower costs and lower - and more affordability on the Model 3, is it really around the powertrain and getting that at parity? Or is it everything else about Tesla not being as efficient as other manufacturers that is causing the higher price right now? And have I follow-up, please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"It's both, it's both, the vehicle and both the powertrain. So I split my time half and half between the Gigafactory and here, and there is opportunities in both, yes."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"But I think the bigger point is that, yes, there is cost reduction opportunities out, but the bigger point is it's not that our cost is higher than a gas-powered or an internal combustion engine."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I think what Toni meant is with the battery pack, as in battery pack as well as the powertrain together, are more expensive than an engine."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"That's true."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In addition, our operating margin remains strong at 5.7%. Operating margins in the fourth quarter are usually lower in the automotive industry, but this was not the case with Tesla."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And how big do you think that delta is today? And when it's - do you think of it as being kind of $10,000, $11,000 for that pack plus powertrain for an electric vehicle and maybe $5,000 or $6,000 for an internal combustion engine car? And is that sort of the order of magnitude? And where do you see those getting much more aligned just sort of given the lives of where you think cell and pack costs are going?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Well, the biggest part to bear in mind is because of electricity, it's quite a bit less than the cost of gasoline, especially in Europe or in California or China, basically almost everywhere except, say, the middle of the United States, where the cost of gasoline is very expensive and electricity is far cheaper. The - so that factors in to the cost of ownership pretty significantly. It's on - sort of going on the order of $50 to $100 a month depending upon how much somebody drives. So that's a very important thing to consider for an electric car versus a gasoline car. The - that said, in terms of initial cost of acquisition, I think it's probably - this is just off the top of my head, not a calculated number, probably on the order of 7k but trending towards 4k or 5k. It's off the top of my head."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. And as you think about 2019, you talked about sort of scenarios for demand and how you plan to roll out the intermediate range and then ultimately the standard range. What is - if you do have to make a trade-off on volume or profitability during the course of the year, meaning to get the volume you need or you think you can deliver, you have to go to lower margins or vice versa, where's the trade-off? Is - are units produced most important to you? Or is delivering the 25% gross margin more important? So if you have a chance to deliver 450,000 or 500,000 cars but they'll be more standard editions and gross margins will end the year at 20%, is that - are you willing to make that trade-off?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"My guess is it ends up being sort of about the 6.5 [does together] where if there's a given amount of free cash flow, you sort of decide - you decide to achieve that with a smaller production or smaller volume of cars or at a higher margin or large volume cars at a smaller margin. I think we're already towards the second. We're going to make more cars at a lower margin, but I think it's more or less a flat rate."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from Maynard Um with Macquarie."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Can you just update us on where battery costs are now and where you anticipate they'll be by year-end? I'm just trying to gauge how much of a factor this is to lowering costs and sustaining profitability."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"That's a highly proprietary number. We cannot give it out, but I'd like to tell you but no. We do think we have the best costs in the world. We're - to the best of our knowledge, our costs are lower than anyone else right now and they're improving."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And maybe talk about your expectations with the Panasonic-Toyota JV and how it might impact you. Was this something that you were made aware of?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I spoke directly with Tsuga-san about this, the Head of Panasonic, and he assured me this will have no impact on Tesla."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from Dan Galves with Wolfe Research."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"2019 is going to be an amazing year for Tesla. As I mentioned, we are expecting to increase sales by 50%. Perhaps could be a lot more than 50%, but I think 50% is a very reasonable number. But that's crazy growth for the automotive industry."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Do you plan to offer a U.S. lease product for Model 3 in the U.S.? When can we expect it? And can you talk about what percentage of S and X have historically been leased in the U.S.?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Well, we've been reluctant to introduce the leasing on Model 3 because of how - of its effect on GAAP financials. So it is worth noting that demand to date is with zero leasing. So obviously, leasing is a way to improve demand but it has - it makes our financials looks worse. So we're - we don't want to introduce that right away. I mean, we'll introduce it sometime later this year probably. What - I'm not sure the percentage of lease is for S and X right now."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"It's around 20%, low 20s, and it stayed stable at that level for many, many quarters, which is - it seems like the natural demand because we don't do [some invention or] artificially bump up."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, exactly. Our leases are legit. The - it usually expects a small business. Tax write-off is important for the - for leasing. So..."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. And then I have just, like, two quick housekeeping questions. One, is there a restructuring charge that you expect in the first quarter? How much is it? And is it included in your expectation of a small profit?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, it is included in that. It's difficult to say exactly what that is. At this point, it's, let's say, roughly around $40 million, but that number can vary slightly."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. And then just the last one is..."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sorry, go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, the last one is, this change in your service parts structure to make things more distributed rather than in the parts warehouse is, would that be like a meaningful working capital drag? What's the cash impact of that?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"No, it's actually - we've just been very silly about where we store our parts. So it's actually going to be no change in sort of working capital or not something you would even notice in the financials. It's just being smarter about sending parts directly to service centers, in fact either directly from our factory here or from our suppliers and just ship and direct to the service center. Right now, actually, our costs will improve, I think, actually quite a lot, persistent, actually quite - they're kind of persistent. It's quite boneheaded, actually speaking self-referentially. So just being - so stopping doing the foolish things will massively improve our service costs, will massively improve customer happiness around the world, and it's just fundamentally better all around. I mean, there are some pretty - we've been just like super dumb in some of the things we've done, where - like [I went] to China last year as I always asked, Okay, what are we doing wrong? What can we fix? And then like our China team is great always. They're like, Well, do you think we could have spare parts that are made in China just sent directly to China service centers? Because currently, there's a bunch of parts that are made in China then sent to a warehouse in New Jersey and then sent back to China. Literally, what was happening? It's super [dumb stuff]. So it's going to get way better. And yes, it's very queer."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I want to note that one of our major priorities this quarter is improving service operations. So really, from my standpoint, when I think about what my priorities are this quarter, it's improving service in North America. That's number one. And I think we have very exciting [indiscernible] we're going to roll out with the [indiscernible]. We're going to get cars to China and Europe and make sure that we have good logistics for the whole delivery process, from factory gate to the customer."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from Ben Kallo with Baird."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I have one question and it's got four parts to it. Happy new year, Elon. So the first part is - so our Street numbers, like consensus, we've got everything wrong for six years or seven years since you went public, and there are about $6 in earnings. Talk to us about that if you can. Number two, Elon, could you talk to us about - can you talk about - I hear you cut some workforce at SpaceX and there at Tesla. I feel that you have a worry about global economy. Can you talk to us about how you feel about that with your guidance in order - in the same order? And then can we talk about, maybe sort of third thing, for JV? No one's ever going to talk about stationary storage, but we had a whole page on that with pretty good speech, and what should we be focusing on that? And what can that add to the bottom line on top of that $6 this next year?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I mean, we can't really, Ben, talk about consensus and what that means. I think the - maybe the better approach is we are providing certain guidance here and you and the other analysts need to reflect that in your modeling. And that's the best indication from the company of our projections. In all fairness, that's the best way I can think of answering your question here."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. J.B., is there anything..."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I mean, I think the letter outlines the predicted growth in the battery storage business, the stationary storage business pretty clearly, and that should be included in the projections as well. So I mean, we're excited about it but I can't say much more detail."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I mean, our internal projections for stationary storage are closer to 3 gigawatt hours. But some of it is kind of lumpy and may not be completed this year. We would have done more in stationary storage last year except we were so strong for vehicle production. So we had to convert a bunch of stationary storage lines, battery lines, to vehicle battery lines. Otherwise, we would have done quite a bit more in stationary storage. I expect that to grow, I mean, probably twice as fast as automotive for short - a long time."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We continue to set production records basically every month. So that's growing."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And the profitability of the storage business and the gross margin continue to improve as we keep ramping up production and scale."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"It's going to be a gigantic business down the road."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And the last question was about economy, global economy."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"That's obviously pretty far from California to get to Europe and China and make it to - get the car to customers. So we're working every aspect of that logistics chain, and I think we've - I think it's going to be good. I'd say at this point, I'm optimistic about being profitable in Q1. Not by a lot, but I'm optimistic about being profitable in Q1 and for all quarters going forward."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Sure. I mean, I do think that the economy moves in cycles and there's fairly a significant risk of a recession over the next 12 to 18 months, but I'm confident that Tesla will remain at least slightly profitable even with - even if there is a significant recession. And then when - and be all the stronger for it when there's recession. And the - we have to be relentless about cost in order to make affordable cars and not go back up. That's what our headcount reduction is about, yes, yes. I think we have to - it's - we have to be super hardcore about it. It's the only way to make affordable cars. The - on the SpaceX side, the cost reduction was for a different reason unrelated to - SpaceX has really - SpaceX has two absolutely insane projects that would normally bankrupt a company, Starship and Starlink, and so SpaceX has to be incredibly spartan with expenditures until those programs reach fruition."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay, Great. I think that's all we have time for today. Thank you very much for your questions, and Elon would like to have some closing remarks."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Okay, Great. I think that's all we have time for today. Thank you very much for your questions, and Elon would like to have some closing remarks."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Again."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, from Tesla."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Deepak, I think it's now been - you first started with Tesla about 11 years ago, right?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"When - close to that, yes."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, almost 11 years. Thank you for your tremendous contribution to Tesla. And he's announcing retirement but the retirement will not be immediate, but Deepak will continue to be at Tesla for a few more months and will continue to serve as a senior adviser to Tesla for probably years to come hopefully. And we thought long and hard about who the right person is to take over from Deepak, and that's Zach. And Zach has been with Tesla now for nine years..."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Nine years."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So let's see, we've opened 27 new store and service locations, bringing out our total locations worldwide to 378. And we increased our Mobile Service fleet to 411 vehicles. Mobile Service fleet is something we can scale up very rapidly, because we don't need bricks and mortar, we can get more vehicles, hire people and deploy rapidly."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. So Zach [ph] you had management and technology at Wharton undergrad and then worked at Tesla and then spent a couple of years at Harvard Business School, which I actually don't think was necessary, by the way."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"You told me that when I came back."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, exactly. So Zach's incredibly talented, has made a huge contribution to Tesla over the years, and obviously a very well-known [quantity] to the whole team and has the respect of the whole team. And Zach, I don't know if you'd like to say a few words?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, I will."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. Or do you want, Deepak, to save you?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Deepak?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure, okay. Thank you, yes. Well, first of all, Elon, thank you very much for the opportunity for me to be here and be here again a second time. I've learned a lot from you and I've been always inspired by you, and I've been also very inspired by the team at Tesla who are incredibly brilliant, very passionate and just amazingly perseverant, the best team I could imagine. So thank you everybody for that. There is no good time to make this change. We felt strongly this was a good time. It's a new chapter, a new year. Tesla has had two great quarters of profitability, cash flow, so now a really solid foundation. And I feel really good about Zach taking over as the CFO. He's proven himself with his many years of experience and many tough challenges that he's worked on and really excited to have Zach take on this role, and I'll be here to support him and make sure we are all successful as a company."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, well, thank you, Deepak. Thank you, Elon. So my name is Zach Kirkhorn. Just a brief background on myself. So I joined Tesla just under nine years ago when it's a super small company with a lot of potential ahead of us and I was attracted to the mission and the vision of the company. Throughout that time, I've been deep in the operations of every major program of the company, from the Roadster to Model S and X, Model 3, scaling our Energy business and more things to come, which we've talked about on the call. I feel we're starting 2019 with a very strong financial foundation. We have enough cash to continue launching new programs and developing new technologies, and we're able to service upcoming debt obligations with our forecasted cash flows. My focus alongside the talented and amazingly passionate team at Tesla is to ensure we continue the terrific momentum on cost management and operational efficiency, which will enable us more - enable more access to our products around the world, which is key to achieving the mission of the company. On a personal note, Deepak, a huge thank you to you for your leadership, mentorship and support and very much looking forward to discussing our progress on future earnings calls."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Great."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. Thank you very much. We will speak to you in three months."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"It also actually results from higher customer satisfaction, because we can actually send one of our service vans to your work or home and fix the car without you having to bring it into the service center or do any paperwork or anything like that. It's really seamless and invisible. The customers love it."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, guys."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for participating in today's conference. This concludes the program. You may all disconnect, and have a wonderful day."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And we're also increasing the functionality of the Tesla App for service, so that instead of having to make an appointment - to call and make an appointment, you just open your Tesla App, say you want to make a service appointment, and it was the top 10 most frequently requested service items, and you can - with a couple of taps, you've made yourself an appointment."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I would like to introduce your host for today's call, Mr. Martin Viecha, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Viecha, you may begin."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And we're going to make it easier for the car to be picked up and dropped off as well. So if you want - if you prefer not coming to the service center at all, you can just request that the car be picked up and delivered. That's something that we'll be - so that's already - we're going to roll it out and have a big improvement to customer satisfaction. It rolled out two or three weeks ago."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"But the next thing we're going to add is, if a car detects something wrong, like a flat tire or a drive unit failure, that before the car has even come to a halt, there is a tow truck and a service loader on the way."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The car has already notified Tesla emergency services, and a service loader, a tow truck, are on their way before your car has even come to a stop. I think this will be immense in improving customer happiness."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"[Indiscernible]call it and you have to tap the center screen to cancel it. So you can cancel it if you want. We just have to - it's like automatically going to happen. You just press cancel."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"We're also improving parts distribution. So I think we made a strategic error in the past about not having service parts located at our service centers. We had them in parts distribution warehouses, which basically meant it was impossible to have a fast turnaround on servicing a car, because the car would come in, then the parts will be requested, they come to the service center, this would basically - even if they're very simple, repair could take days."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So we're going to be able to stock in all common parts at the service centers, so that it's possible to - - get your car serviced in 20 minutes or 15 minutes, even if it's a simple matter. I mean, it should be like eight minutes or whatever, eight minutes. It should be like lightning fast. But in order to - we have to have the parts located at our service centers."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Also, it's going to make sense for our service centers to do basic body work or essentially to replace a front or rear fascia, it makes sense to just prestock the front and rear fascia in the common colors. So unless you have an unusual color, we can literally replace your fascia in 15, 20 minutes, and this is not like, weeks at a body shop stuff."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In terms of the new products, with Model Y, we've completed ensuring of ensign of Model Y, and the parts are - [indiscernible] for production Model Y. Three quarters of the Model Y is common with the Model 3, so it's a much lower CapEx per vehicle than Model 3. And the risk is also quite low."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"This is in contrast to Model S versus Model X where the theory was - I think Model X, we just - it's sort of Model X to be like the sort of the Faberg?egg of cars. It's an incredible vehicle and probably one - probably nothing like it will ever be made again, and maybe it shouldn't. But it is a work of art. It's a special work of art."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"But the commonality with the Model S is limited. It was only about maybe 30% in common with the Model S, whereas Model Y is, I think, 76% was what it got in common with the Model 3. And we're most likely going to put Model Y production right next to - in fact, it's part of our main Gigafactory in Nevada."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you, Sherry, and good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Tesla's fourth quarter 2018 Q&A webcast. I'm joined today by Elon Musk, J.B. Straubel, Deepak Ahuja and a number of other executives. Our Q4 results were announced at about 1 p.m. Pacific Time in the update letter we published at the same link as this webcast."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So it will just be right there. Batteries and powertrains will come out and go straight into the vehicle. So that also reduces our risk of execution and reduces the cost of having to transfer parts from California to Nevada. It's not a for sure thing, but it's quite likely, and it's our default plan."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I would expect Model Y will probably be - the [indiscernible] Model Y will be maybe 50% higher than Model 3, could be even double. The - as I understand it, the midsized SUV segment is the - worldwide is the most popular type of vehicle. So we'll probably see a higher volume of Y than 3."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And earlier this month, we saw the construction of our Gigafactory in Shanghai, and by the end of this year, we expect to be producing Model 3s using a complete vehicle production line. That's body paint, final assembly, general assembly and module production."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So it basically would be - this will be extremely fast. I get like daily updates of progress of the Shanghai Gigafactory, and those factories are going to go up like lightning."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So we do feel quite confident at this point, at least for the factories that are in our control, that we can achieve volume production in Shanghai by the end of the year. And that should allow us to get to the 10,000 vehicles a week rate or very close to it by the end of the year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And yes, I think that's it."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay, great. So we're going to take the first questions from our retail investors who have been submitting their questions on say.com. So the question that has been submitted has been about service, which I think you already spoke at length about. So let's go to the second question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The second question would be, how are you feeling about demand right now across the product line? Is 500,000 to 700,000 units at 42,000 ASP still a realistic annual target for Model 3, even considering Model Y and its impact on demand? And do you continue to see S and X demand of 100,000 annually?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I mean, my best guess, this is just a guess, my best guess for demand of Model 3 worldwide is something - in a strong economy, it's something on the order of 700,000 or 800,000 units a year. That's my best guess for demand of Model 3 in a strong economy."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"If the economy goes into a recession, then I think that could be something under 40% less. But I think even in a recession, worldwide demand is still something in the order of 500,000 for Model 3."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"During this call, we will discuss our business outlook and make forward-looking statements. These comments are based on our predictions and expectations as of today. Actual events or results could differ materially due to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those mentioned in our most recent filings with the SEC."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"For S and X, we did eliminate the 75 [indiscernible] of S and X and product model differentiation relative to 3 and then Y that's coming out. I think we could see a slight decline in total vehicles, but I think the net cash flow from S and X is likely to be very similar. So probably no major change in net cash flow for S and X."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. The next question from Alex is, can you please share an update on full self-driving and Tesla Network development? When will customers start to see full self-driving features? What's the best case time line for a Tesla Network to go live?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. We have - we already have full self-driving capability on highway. So from highway on ramp to highway exit, including passing cars and going from one highway interchange to another, full self-driving capability is there."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In a few weeks, we'll be pushing update that will allow the option of removing stock confirmed in markets where regulators approve it, which we believe that will be the case in the U.S., for example. And over time, we think probably all regulators will approve it."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"But we kept talking from there just to make sure that we took care of like - of any strange corner cases. And it's really quite sublime if you have stock confirm of and like the car goes from highway on ramp, passes slower cars, change - takes an interchange and then takes the exit and then comes to a stop after the exit. So it's really quite profound to have that experience."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Then the next part of full self-driving will really be to - is traffic lights. It's hard. So stop streets are pretty easy because you can essentially geocode those and is recognized at all times."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Traffic lights and intersections will be the next really tricky one. And then navigating complex parking lots and like - sort of like if you're underground in a mall parking lot with a lot of traffic and pedestrians and it's on multiple levels, that kind of thing is what gets tricky."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"With the release of enhanced or advanced Summon, you'll see the first indications of the car being able to navigate complex parking lots, and that's also coming up fairly soon, probably next month. And in development mode, the car does all the things that I just mentioned in development mode. It recognizes traffic lights and stop signs and basically has all the functionality in development mode. It's really just a question of getting your reliability of recognizing traffic lights to several names."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So I guess like, I don't know, 98% good right now, but we need it to be like 99.999%, really extremely reliable. So - and the capability will be there for - when will we think it's safe for full self-driving? It's probably towards the end of this year, and then it's up to regulators to decide when they want to approve that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. Let's go to the next question, which is, if and when will Tesla switch Model S and X to 2170 battery cells? What percent range improvement do you expect?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"But before we jump into Q&A, Elon has some opening remarks. Elon?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"We have no plans to switch S and X to 2170 and can't comment on huge product developments."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. So maybe we'll take the last question from retail investors, which was, where will Tesla Semi and Model Y be produced? Can you share a time line on expected production ramp of these products?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"As I mentioned earlier, the Model Y, we think, most likely will be produced at Gigafactory, but that's - unless we encounter some obstacle - that's the default plan that we're proceeding towards. And it's fast, low risk and also low CapEx. In terms of the - I mean, probably there's like initial production of Model Y, very low volume, probably next year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"But then it always takes time to ramp up any production system, and that's difficult to predict the shape of that S-curve. So we feel confident in saying there will be production volume of Model Y by the end of next year, but in between beginning of next year with low volume, it always starts with very low growth exponentially - from beginning of last year to end of next year, it's difficult to break that ramp. So that's our expectation for Y. For Semi, we're - I don't know if you want to comment on that, Jerome."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I want to start next year as well."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"But the first units will be - this is Jerome. Well, first units will be for our own usage. So depends how many trucks we'll use for our own usage to move the parts and the vehicle in different location, and then we'll start delivering to outside customers."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, that's good. And then the Tesla pickup truck, we might be ready to unveil that this summer. It will be something quite unique, unlike anything else."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. Fantastic. So operator, we can start taking questions from participants on the call."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ryan Brinkman with JPMorgan."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks, Martin. Last year was definitely the most challenging year in Tesla history, but also the most successful. Thanks to the incredible work of the Tesla team, Model 3 became the best-selling premium vehicle in the U.S. for 2018."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks for taking my question. I think - the amount that you've spent on lands for Gigafactory Shanghai in the classification operating cash flows, is there any guidance you can provide us in terms of how to think about CapEx for this facility going forward? And can you discuss the source of funds for the project?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I think you've spoken in the past about the potential to raise that locally in China. Is that still your thinking? And what kind of terms might you be able to raise that capital?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, Deepak here. You're right. The purchase of the land is a 50-year lease with the government of China. So it's not CapEx, but it's operating lease, that shows up as cash flow from operations. However, the CapEx that we will invest is our equipment, and we fully own it. So that will show up as capital expenditures."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The plan, as we have indicated in the letter, is still to get funding for majority of that capital spending from local China banks. And we expect pretty attractive rates based on the dialogue we've had. And there's a lot of interest. And we hope to finalize that and then share the details at that point."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. I mean, as a ballpark figure, probably it's something about - something in the order of $0.5 billion in CapEx to get to the 3,000 vehicle rates in Shanghai, ballpark figure. And as Deepak was saying, [indiscernible] very competitive debt financing in China, really extremely compelling interest rates, and we do not expect that to be a capital drain on the company."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. These are the biggest banks in the world, and for them, $500 million is not a large amount of money on the scheme of things."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Our next question comes from Gene Munster with Loup Ventures."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sorry perhaps - if you're in the automotive industry you\u2019ll understand how significant this is but maybe it's not as obvious to everyone is Tesla has the first wholly owned manufacturing facility in China for any - of any automotive company. So this is profound, and we're very appreciative of the Chinese government allowing us to do this. I think it is symbolic of [indiscernible] open the market. And if I - and you know, it [indiscernible], so like a note of appreciation for the Chinese government in allowing us to do that. It's a very significant thing."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Question I have is related to Waymo and the autonomous driving opportunity. Morgan Stanley recently valued Waymo at $175 billion. And my question is, what do they have that you don't have? And separately - so what do they have that you don't have?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And then separately, how important is the timing in the Tesla story longer term? Is this nice to have? Is it really about EVs and renewable energy? Or is the autonomy kind of one of the foundational parts of the story longer term?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And in fact, when considering battery electric vehicles, Tesla achieved an 80% market share of U.S. sales in the last year. I think this point is perhaps not well appreciated. All other electric vehicles combined were 20% of sales in the U.S. in last year. So I think that's not so bad."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"[Indiscernible] goodness of Tesla, yes, so like the why of Tesla, the relevance, what's the point of Tesla, comes down to two things: acceleration of sustainable energy and autonomy. The acceleration of sustainable energy is absolutely fundamental because this is the next potential risk for humanity."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So actually, that is, by far and away, the most important thing. But also, very important is autonomy. This has the potential to save millions of lives, tens of millions of serious public injuries and give people their time back, so that they don't have to drive, they can - if you're on the road, you can spend time doing things that you enjoy instead of being in terrible traffic."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So it's extremely important. We feel confident about our technical strategy, and I think we have an advantage that no one else has, which is, that we have, at this point, somewhere in the order of 300,000 vehicles on the road, with a 360-degree camera sensor suite, radar, ultrasonics, always connected uploads, especially video clips with the customer [submission] [ph] when there is intervention. So effectively, we have a massive, massive training fleet."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our - the amount of training that we have - if you add everyone else up combined, they're probably 5%, I'm being generous, of the miles that Tesla has. And this difference is increasing. A year from now, we'll probably go - certainly from 18 months from now, we'll probably have 1 million vehicles on the road with - and every time the customers drive the car, they're training the systems to be better. I'm just not sure how anyone competes with that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Our next question..."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sorry, do you have a follow-up question? Okay, no follow-up question. Okay. Let's go to the next participant."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Our next question is from Colin Rusch with Oppenheimer."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks so much. Can you talk a little bit about the geographic dispersion for the guidance for 2019, where you're expecting the Model 3s to sell through as well as the other models?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Well, I think we did, actually. Yes, it's clear in our letter."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We indicated in Q1, we will start delivering Model 3s in Europe and China. And we also shared a chart showing the potential market size for midsized premium sedans in North America, Europe and Asia, suggesting those markets could be even bigger. So I think that gives a good sense of where we'll be. And we'll launch the right-hand drive version at some point to go to the other markets."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We also delivered - also made vehicles last year as we did in all prior years combined, which is tremendous achievement by the Tesla team. The - if you track Tesla vehicle production year-over-year, cumulative sales and deliveries year-over-year, it is about the cleanest exponential I've ever seen."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. Maybe in the order of 350,000 to 500,000 Model 3s, something like that this year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. And then just in terms of the cost reduction road map and rework post-factory, can you talk a little bit about your expectation for reducing that in the next couple of quarters and what the order of magnitude is on that in your model internally?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Jerome, do you want to answer that?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"This is Jerome. Well, our manufacturing is improving quarter-over-quarter. Actually, week-over-week, we take fewer hours, both here in Fremont or at the Gigafactory, to assemble the Model 3 and S and X as well. And then we track the quality very closely."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We review that carefully with the engineers and the supply chain and the manufacturing team. And the quality in the field and the number of incidents is also improving week-over-week, every week. So there are fewer and fewer need for cars to be in service, yes. So we'll keep going. There's no end in sight. And we'll try to make sure that the car never breaks down."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes, I think there's like some confusion about rectification. Like I said - like - for us to drive the Model 3s that come off the line, all that happens is like some slight adjustment of drawer gaps and panel gaps and that kind of thing, and that's all that's done. There's nothing more than that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from Colin Langan with UBS."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks for taking my question. Just a follow-up on the comments around you said about 700,000 to 800,000, you think, is the normal demand. I mean, any color on what price you're expecting that to be? Because I think there's a lot of chatter that demand is already weak in - of the midrange, at least, already in January. I don't know if that's true as well."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. I mean, - there are multiple factors at play here. First of all, there's a lot of seasonality to automotive purchases. Most people do not buy a new car in the middle of a blizzard. So January and February tends to be seasonally low and then picks up significantly around the early to mid-March time frame. In the U.S., we obviously have a pull forward of demand from the tax credit."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And yes, there's - so there's all those factors. But I feel very confident about Model 3 demand. The customer happiness level with the car is incredible and I think probably the highest of any car in the world right now, I think. And so you can tell like, basically, nobody wants to sell their car."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We've basically almost doubled our fleet every year. Every year, we make as many cars as we did in all prior years. So this is a very unusual thing to see for - especially for a large complex manufactured object, I think maybe the fastest that a complex manufactured object like a car has grown in history or at least I'm not aware of anything that is faster. Martin, are you?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"But the target price point is, I think, in the past, you mentioned mid-$40,000. Is that where we're thinking or a long-term range?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, this is really just a guess. So it's not like I got some huge crystal ball or something. But at volume, I would expect, this is totally a guess, I want to be clear, probably an average of $42,000, probably at that volume level. I'm not certain on it."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And just as a follow-up. You commented that you expect China to be online by the end of the year, but there's a lot of articles that the battery supplier - you're looking at different battery suppliers. But, I mean, do you have a battery supplier? Because it seems kind of close to when production is supposed to start."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Well, there's really three things: the cell, the module and the pack. We will be making the module and the pack. So it's really just a question of cell supply. And we can essentially use any [high density] [ph] 2170 chemistry. And we expect to be a combination of cells produced at our Gigafactory in Nevada and cells produced in Japan and cells produced locally in China. And we feel confident to have a sufficient supply to hit the 3,000 units."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from Emmanuel Rosner with Deutsche Bank."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"First, I wanted to ask you about the short-range Model 3. What are your latest thoughts in terms of timing of introduction? I think at some point, you had in mind to do it in the - maybe the first half of this year. And just to clarify, when you're sort of talking about the outlook for 2019, the number of deliveries up 50% and then the margin target for Model 3 to get to 25%, does that assume that you're introducing a lower range, the short-range Model 3 at some point during the year?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Well, you could call it the standard range, but it's maybe short by Tesla's standards, but it's long range by other manufacturers' standards. So - but yes, we expect to introduce the standard range Model 3 sometime - probably the middle of this year is a rough, rough guess. And we're working hard to improve our costs of production, our overhead costs, our fixed costs, just costs in general. I think this past year, while extremely difficult, has driven us to a high level of financial discipline. I think we're way smarter about how we spend money, and we're getting better with each passing week. Yes."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And so to be clear, the - you expect to reach at some point this year - or you're targeting at some point this year 25% gross margins on Model 3, and that's despite introducing the lower-end - or just the standard range Model 3. Is that correct?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Okay. And, I guess, my follow-up would be on the demand side. So you're talking about 50% increase this year. You said a few times that it could be higher than this. I think you just mentioned in the previous question 350,000 to 500,000, if I understood well. So what is sort of like what drives the cautious outlook that's in your letter? Because it feels like it's the - it's just basically four times the fourth quarter run rate, which would imply sort of 50% for the full year but not really a lot of growth versus what you just accomplished. So, I guess, how do we think about the total demand for 2019, especially if you introduced this - the cheaper version?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Greetings and welcome to Walmart's Fiscal Year 2018 Fourth Quarter Earnings Release. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation. [Operator Instructions] As a reminder, this conference is being recorded."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sam's Club comps improved to 2.4%, and in International, 9 of 11 markets posted positive comp sales. So overall, we were pleased with most aspects of the quarter and confident in the foundational aspects of the business as we enter this new fiscal year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our next question comes from the line of Robbie Ohmes with Bank of America Merrill Lynch."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Good morning, guys."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hey, Robbie."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So a follow-up on Simeon's just - and then on gross margin. So I just wanted to get clarity on the eCommerce growth outlook. So the first question is just, where -- the confidence in the eCommerce growth going back to roughly 40%, are you seeing that already in the first quarter? And sort of what is the difference to get back to the 40% versus the fourth quarter?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"And then could you tie that into the gross margin outlook you gave? Maybe some thoughts on where you might be investing in price. And also, I think the guidance, Brett, was that gross margin rate would be down less in fiscal '19. So if eCommerce is going to reaccelerate to a sort of 40% type growth rate, why wouldn't we see more pressure on gross margin? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Robbie. This is Doug. I'll start with the eCommerce question, and Brett can elaborate on it too if he would like to. We're not expecting the first quarter to go all the way to 40%. We think it'll start to ramp up from the fourth quarter to approximately 40% for the year. We're going to continue expanding our eCommerce business as it relates to food. Online Grocery's ramping up."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"As we've said, we're going to almost double the number of locations that do Online Grocery. That will drive eCommerce growth to a certain level. And then on top of that, we've got the activity planned for both Walmart.com and Jet. So we've got an investment plan there."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We have an assortment plan and other innovations, as you saw last year, that will be occurring as we go through the year. So we think by the time we get to the end of the year and look back at the number for the total year, it will be approximately 40%."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. Robbie, I'll comment more on gross margin. As we've talked about before, there's a number of things that impact gross margin. Price, shrink, transportation expenses, all of that go into that. And so as we've said before, it's tough to look at gross margin quarter-to-quarter. I think you have to look at it on a longer base. And what I'd said in my comments is that we expect that next year's decrease won't be what we saw in the fourth quarter."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And if you look at where we've guided operating income and the comment we've made about slightly leveraging expenses, you can kind of back into what -- a bit of what we're expecting from a gross margin perspective. So we do take into consideration the mix of the business."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales growth in the fourth quarter was 23%, down from 50% in the third quarter. The majority of this slowdown was expected as we fully lapped the Jet acquisition, as well as created a healthier long-term foundation for holiday. A smaller portion of the slowdown was unexpected as we experienced some operational challenges that negatively impacted growth."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We'll continue to be aggressive but thoughtful on pricing, where we invest, how we invest, both in stores and eCommerce, but we'll be thoughtful about those investments."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Robbie. Rob, next question please?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The next question is from the line of Karen Short with Barclays."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hi, thanks. Just two clarifications and then a bigger picture question. So on the gross margin, the comment that you expect next year's decrease won't be where you were in the fourth quarter, is that including or excluding Sam's? So is that the 61 basis points or around 40?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"That's all in next year as far as gross margin rate."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Okay. And then I know you kind of said that your comments on earnings growth will be - the cadence growth rate will be similar throughout the year. Is that fair to say, for U.S. comps, you don't really expect a lot of volatility throughout the year?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. I don't expect a lot of volatility throughout the year. Overall, for the year, we expect it to be 2% or higher, but I don't expect a lot of volatility during the year, Karen."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Okay. And then I guess I wanted to just turn to the color in terms of acquiring customers on Walmart.com versus Jet.com. Is it -- I guess, is it fair to say then, since you're switching to, I guess, a lower-cost customer to look to acquire, is it fair to say that eCommerce losses have kind of bottomed? Is it still consistent with what you previously said that eCommerce losses have bottomed in '18?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And then I guess, bigger picture, is there any color on Jet? Like do you feel as good as you have always felt in terms of the prospects for Jet and this is just pure math, it just makes more sense to go after the Walmart.com customer?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Yes. Karen, this is Doug. Great questions. I think as we look at this year, we're trying to preserve flexibility as we go through the year to decide what level of investment we want to make in eCommerce as we go month to month and quarter-to-quarter. It's possible we may choose to lose a little more in eCommerce this year than we did last year, but generally speaking, we think it'd be about the same level of losses."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Overall, we finished the year with eCommerce sales growth of more than 40%, so we feel better about the year than the quarter. Looking ahead, we expect eCommerce growth to increase from the fourth quarter level as we enter the New Year with about 40% growth for the year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our visibility into picking costs, shipping costs, margin rates, the cost to acquire a customer and how the different cohorts are behaving as we make the marketing investments is really improving, and I'm excited about all the levers that are there. And we're -- we again are trying to preserve some flexibility to make choices as we go through."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"As it relates to the brands, Walmart is just a really well-known brand for value throughout the country. And when you get into Oklahoma and Texas, in the middle of the country, it just makes a lot of sense to invest in that brand rather than investing higher incremental dollar to introduce a brand that's less familiar."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Now on the other hand, if you take the New York metropolitan area as one example, not the only one, the Jet brand is really well known, has a lot of traction, has appeal, as we mentioned earlier, to urban, millennial, higher-income customers. So it's really just a positioning choice, and that choice was made before we made the acquisition."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I think we wanted to leave our minds open as we acquire Jet to make the best choices about how we use the brand and where we position it. But our thoughts before we bought it that basically become confirmed, that Jet plays a great role reaching parts of the country and selling, in some cases, some brands that are not ready to sell on Walmart.com."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So I think what you'll see is Jet will go through a period of adjustment and then it'll start to grow again in the future but focused on specific markets and opportunities, whereas Walmart will be the broad-based, big part of the business, and growing it will be a priority."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Rob, next question please?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And if I could just ask\u2026"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We\u2019re limited to just one question, just to get through as many as we can, please. Thanks."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. Your next question comes from Oliver Chen with Cowen & Company."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We're confident in our strategy to transform the company, and we continue to be guided by four key objectives: make every day easier for busy families, change how we work, deliver results and operate with discipline and be the most trusted retailer."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hi. Thank you. Regarding eCommerce and the road ahead, what are your thoughts on profitability and the smart baskets and pricing and how you're thinking about grocery pickup as well as supply chain in the context of bricks post clicks?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And would love your thoughts on eCommerce M&A and on correlated assets as you've been quite creative about thinking about how to build this business over time? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. Let's break it into pieces. This is Doug. I'll try to do so quickly. If you look at this business, look at it for the quarter or for the year, I think the first thing to always remember is we've got this really big and now strong business in U.S. supercenters. Our comp traffic's up. We're in a really strong foundation there, playing more offense than before. So the big part of the company is in good shape and foundationally strong."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Now we've got Sam's to a point where it's starting to get repositioned. We'll see more traction and improvement in that part of our business. Internationally, the big businesses at Walmex, Canada and even the U.K., which is a big part of our International business, has been stronger lately. So kind of those big platforms are there and stronger, and I wouldn't want us to spend this whole call talking about a smaller part of the business, although it's of vital strategic importance."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So now let's click to eCommerce. In the U.S. specifically, and don't forget we've got food eCommerce opportunities around the world, but let's focus just on the U.S. for a second, we've got this tremendous advantage of having the stores and the supply chain that put us within 90% of U.S. customers within 10 miles. So you can build on that to build a strong food eCommerce business, and that's what we're doing."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Learning how to pick in-store enables Online Grocery. Learning how to pick in store enables delivery, which we'll continue to expand and learn more about as we go through the year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now let's click to the part of the eCommerce business that doesn't come out of our stores. That's where you get into eCommerce fulfillment centers, the opportunity to leverage smart cart to build an eCommerce basket, not just selling eaches. Like selling a television at cost for Cyber Mondays, not all that exciting as it relates to being a way to make money, but driving baskets on eCommerce is."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So you'll start to see smart cart functionality move over to Walmart. You'll see us continue to make assortment improvements to bring in new brands, be more increasingly open to not only the Jet brand but the Walmart brand."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So as that happens, your mix starts to change, and you're selling a basket and a more profitable basket. To do that, there are times when an acquisition makes sense because it accelerates the improvement that you can make in your assortment."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"It might take us longer, for example, to do it organically. There's so many suppliers and so many brands to acquire to get on the platform. So some of the acquisitions we've made have been specifically aimed at assortment, and I would expect that some of that will continue."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We're accelerating innovation in the business to make shopping faster and easier for our customers. Creativity, decisiveness and speed are priorities. We made good progress this past year to save busy families time and money, and we'll do more."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Oliver. Rob, next question please?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Next question is from Chris Horvers with JPMorgan."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Thanks. Good morning. A follow-up question on gross margin. So can you talk about the 60 basis point decline in the U.S.? Where was that relative to your expectations going into the quarter?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And then what aspects of those buckets moderate as you look to the upcoming year such that the gross margin degradation improves? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. Chris, this is Brett. As we mentioned earlier, so the 60 basis points you mentioned was total company, and there is about third of that, that was related to the Sam's Club closures as well as the Brazil eCommerce shutdown and a couple of other things inside of International. So it was -- about third of that was onetime type items."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In the U.S., again, there's just so many things that go into margin in a quarter, pricing, shrink, transportation costs. And so quarter-to-quarter, I think, gross margin is challenging to look at and try to compare it on a quarter-to-quarter basis. We're going to continue to invest in price. We've been investing in price."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"As you know, we always invest in price. But we've been investing in price over the last couple of years, and so we're now 2 years into that. So there's just different pieces of it. I don't want to get into specific pieces from a competitive standpoint, but we feel confident that the gross margin decrease that we will see next year will be less than what we've seen in the fourth quarter."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Chris, this is Doug. I'll just add that I think we're getting better at managing our price investment considering all the other investments that we're making. So Brett and I and the management team are watching eCommerce growth rates, eCommerce profitability, store traffic counts and making decisions in a relatively fast cycle on how much price to invest and where to invest it, and we're monitoring what happens when we do that."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So we're just going to calibrate this thing as we go through the year. It's one of our big levers, and we're excited about the fact that the investments we've made in the past are driving traffic and starting to get this productivity moving, which is ultimately what we're after."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And one of the metrics that I get excited about and have been for some time now because the team's doing such a good job is inventory. For us to be down in comp store inventory again for the 11th consecutive quarter while shelf in-stock is going up is awesome and remarkable."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"By becoming stronger at mobile and leveraging digital capabilities, we improved in-store experiences, including our pharmacy and money services areas. We enabled Easy Reorder online. We're making the checkout experience easier with Scan & Go and also digitizing the returns process."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And the cash flow benefits and the other benefits are flowing through to the overall business. So on price, we're being thoughtful, we're being strategic. And we'll manage margins just like we do the other parts of the P&L, a quarter at a time, balancing short term and long-term."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Chris. Rob, next question please?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from the line of Michael Lasser with UBS."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Good morning. Thanks a lot of taking my question. Several years ago, Walmart was ahead of the curve, investing in stores, e-com, in price, and you really saw a gain in terms of market share and your outperformance relative to a lot of other retailers. Now it seems like some of those share gains may be slowing a bit."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"So do you think you're seeing diminishing returns on your investments and you'll have to make even greater investments in order to outperform at the rate that you have been versus others?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"No. Michael, this is Doug. That's not my perception, and the data doesn't support that. When you look at our share numbers, we feel really good about them, and not only the dollar share numbers but also units. I'm specifically thinking of the U.S. business in my comment. But the tonnage moving through our stores is increasing, and I don't feel a trend shift there."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Michael. Rob, next question please?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Next question is from the line of Scott Mushkin with Wolfe Research."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hey, guys. Thanks for taking my question. And before I ask it, I concur, our data does show you guys continue to gain a lot of market share, particularly in food. But that's kind of where I want to go with my question. If we fast-forward, guys, 5 years from now and we see a substantial, I think about 60% -- 67% of your sales are either pharmacy or food, and a good portion of that becomes click-and-collect or even maybe delivered to the home, how should we think about Walmart's profitability? And have you guys done a lot of thinking on that? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. Why don't we both -- I mean, you can go first, Brett."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We made acquisitions to improve our online assortment, and we're partnering with others like Google and JD in new ways. We're expanding Online Grocery in the U.S. and around the world and broadening our delivery capabilities in the U.S., China and other international markets."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. I think as, Mike -- I mean, Scott, as Doug was saying, we do spend a lot of time as a management team thinking ahead, obviously, next quarter, next year, 3 years out, 5 years out and how we manage all the pieces of our portfolio, and that includes International portfolio, Sam's Club, eCommerce, Walmart, and thinking about how we will manage as this business changes."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We know it changes. The customer is changing, and we're going to stay out in front of the customer. And the great thing about our business is we have so many different ways to do that, and we -- and the diversity of our portfolio gives us more options in which to do that."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And I think we sit back and we say we know where we want to be 5 years from now, 10 years from now, and there's a lot of different ways to get to that versus just one direct path. And so there's different things that we can do to manage that over time."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I think the only thing I would add is that we're learning kind of the activity-based cost aspects of different paths. And I think, over time, if we could, and I think smart cart causes us to believe we might be able to, we'd like to bring the customers into this conversation and help them understand through our pricing and our communication that if you want to buy a single can of corn for under $1, there's not going to be a better, more efficient path to you than a supercenter visit."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"As the shape of a basket changes, food and non-food, and it goes up, and remember, Jet had a much higher units per order and still has a much higher units per order than the Walmart brand does, you can start to change the economics of eCommerce to be profitable with a unit per order that looks more like 7 than 2 and a blended basket margin that helps you to have basket economics rather than eaches."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So part of what we're trying to build with eCommerce, and I think you can see it, frankly, in the fourth quarter choices that we made around pricing on eaches, is that we're really focused on building a basket business because that's a big key to profitability."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Scott. Rob, Next question please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from Matt Fassler with Goldman Sachs."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Thanks a lot. Good morning. I think I have a different way of asking the eCommerce and profitability question. Understanding that this is a year in which you're probably making some investments that you may not have made because of tax reform, is there anything that you learned since you spoke with us back in October that suggests it would be more expensive due to market conditions to get to 40% annual eCommerce growth than you had previously thought?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"No, I don't think so. Matt, my head, when you asked the question, started dividing it into food and non-food. There's nothing new on food. I think if you go back and listen to or watch our October analyst presentation where we walked through the strategy for food, all of that, even more convicted, still holds."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"It's really all about providing more convenience for customers. Customers that shop across all channels are important to us. As we said in October, U.S. customers that shop us in-store and online spend nearly twice as much as customers that only shop with us in stores. Their loyalty to Walmart strengthens overall."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"On the non-food side, we're building a business. It's \u2013 non-food eCommerce is -- has not been our historic competency over the last few decades and the history of the company, and so we're learning something new."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We're trying to build an assortment that enables a margin ultimately, and that's got components to it like attracting brands, being able to execute from a fulfillment point of view during a busy season."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We've got some exciting things coming out with site redesign and other things this spring, I think, that will help us make more progress in that area. So I don't think it's that we've learned something new. I think it's a question of pace. And are the operational improvements and merchandising improvements happening? And are you investing marketing to kind of coincide with those improvements."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Matt. Rob, next question please."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The next question comes from the line of Kate McShane with Citi."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hi. Thank you for taking my question. Just to drill down a little bit more on some of the questions that have been asked. I think apparel has been highlighted by several media outlets over the weekend."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Can you walk us through what the overall apparel strategy is in store and online and how you're balancing national brands with private label?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. I'm excited about -- later this week, I'm headed down to Houston because we've got all of our store managers there and these new apparel brands that have been mentioned in the media are on the sales floor, and I hear they look great. We're focused on improving quality; still managing good, better and best; protecting opening price points, which we do such a great job of; reducing our SKU counts in apparel to improve our presentation."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And we have some new fixturing in some stores that we're expanding on this year so that everything fits together, the quality of the product, the value of the product, the brand presentation of it, the ability to present it well because you have fewer SKUs and then a presentation in terms of fixturing that enables that to look fresh and new."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We've got a big apparel business. It has been growing, but we have even more opportunity to grow it in store. And then online, there are numerous opportunities for us to build private brands, leverage the DNVBs of the world like Bonobos and ModCloth and maybe more in the future and attract other brands to both Walmart and Jet that will help us drive our apparel business and manage the mix. So apparel is a pretty big focus at the moment."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Online Grocery customers are a great example as they spend more with us in total once they start using the service. So we'll lean in this year by nearly doubling the number of Online Grocery locations in the U.S."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Kate. Next question please."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Next question is from the line of Dan Binder with Jeffries."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Hi, thanks. You've talked about accelerating certain investments, so I'm just curious if you could be a little bit more specific on what those are and whether or not there'll be any lumpiness by quarter that we should consider. I know you're giving annual guidance, but just want to make sure we consider the quarters as well."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes. Dan, this is Brett. The investments that we're going to make are going to continue to change how we work as a company, help us continue to stay ahead of the customer, and those are going to be in the areas of technology. They're going to be in the areas of supply chain, pricing."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And you can imagine, for competitive reasons, we're not going to get into a lot of things that we plan to do, and we'll be talking about those as we go throughout the year. We mentioned we think EPS growth will be pretty consistent throughout the year quarter by quarter."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"There could be a quarter or two where we make an investment that's different than the other quarters. And if that's the case, we would talk about that when we release earnings. But right now, I don't anticipate major changes quarter-to-quarter."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Dan. Rob, next question please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Next question comes from the line of Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Good morning and also thank you for doing this call. Just wanted to circle back on margins. The guidance for 4.3% to 4.4% for the year, obviously, a lot of moving parts and some acceleration in investments. So just want to confirm that your thought process is that there is an ability to find further leverage over time and expand from those levels as we look forward."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And also, more specifically, for the current quarter, if you can just touch a little bit more detail regarding the transportation cost impact that you saw and what your expectations are on that particular line item going forward."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We're also becoming more efficient by changing the way we work, including leveraging technology to equip and empower our associates to be successful. They now have better information, tools and training."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. Paul, appreciate it. I'll start with the operating income question. We're only giving guidance for this year coming forward. We did leverage expenses. Excluding discrete items for the year, leverage got better as we went throughout the year. So I am optimistic about the expense leverage that we're seeing in the business, particularly in International and Walmart U.S. stores, and I expect that we'll continue to see that progress."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So that gives us -- we've always talked about that being better with expenses gives us more flexibility and more ways in which to hit the P&L that we would like to and do what we want to do for our customers. So that's the only guidance we're going to give, is we'll be this, this year on operating income."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"On transportation costs, those vary from quarter-to-quarter. As you know, gas prices -- fuel prices have gone up a little bit. In this last quarter, I think we're maybe $0.30 versus last year roughly. So that has a bearing on what we do year-to-year, quarter-to-quarter, but that was the main mention of that in the fourth quarter."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Paul. The next question please."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Our next question is from the line of Ben Bienvenu with Stephens."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hi, thanks. Good morning. Thanks for taking my question. Could you talk about the working capital opportunities that you see for FY '19? Obviously, you've done a great job in inventory in the U.S. Can working capital continue to be a source of cash for Walmart? Or have you harvested all the opportunity that you can?"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Thanks, Ben. Yes, there's always more opportunity. If Greg Foran were sitting here, he would talk about, as he goes into store by store, he still sees opportunity for us to be better, to be more efficient. Some of the technology that we've talked about and investments will continue to lead to easier ways for our associates to move goods, stock goods."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So all of that helps, and all of that matters. I don't think there's ever an end to what we can do on working capital. The last 2 years have been -- to be fair, have been pretty impressive, the last couple of years, particularly on payables and the inventory side."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So I think there's more room to go. I won't quantify what I think that could be, but I do believe working capital can continue to be a source of cash for Walmart going forward."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Ben. Rob, next question please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I\u2019d now like to turn the conference over to your host Steve Schmitt with Investor Relations. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Finally, we're always striving to earn and maintain trust. We're focused on not only helping our customers save money and live better but also on creating shared value for our business and the communities we serve."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Peter Benedict with Robert Baird."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Hi, thanks. I wanted to tie it back a little into the reinvestment of the tax benefits. I think you guys have invested about $750 million in labor that was announced about a month ago. When you think about the magnitude that would go back into price, should we think about it being similar to what was in SG&A?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Or how would we even frame that? And you can answer to this year or even over the next couple of years. Thanks."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, Greg. As I said earlier, we're not going to get into a lot of detail about how we're going to invest. The wage amount you mentioned, about $400 million of that was the onetime bonus. The other part would be going forward into next year with the increase in the start rate."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And I'll say what I said before, which is we're going to be thoughtful about these investments. And we have a lot of levers that we can use to satisfy that customer, and we're going to be thoughtful about which levers we pull."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Greg. Rob, next question please."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Next question is from the line of Edward Kelly with Wells Fargo."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah, hi. Good morning. I would just like to talk about - or ask about investment in grocery at this point, just in terms of price investment, how you're thinking about the returns that you're getting on that investment, how you balance that against investing in the digital experience for the customer. I would think that, at this point, you're getting to an area, given your price perception and competitive marketplace, that maybe digital is the better return."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And then you did mention grocery delivery. Could you just give us an update on where you stand there at this point?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sure. As you think about price investments in store, think about grocery, consumables and the fact that, across the store, there are some items, windshield washer fluid in the automotive department, tennis balls in sporting goods, that are high-turn, price-sensitive items to a degree. And when we think about the price investments in the store, we're not singularly focused on dry grocery. We're thinking about this in a broad way."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In his remarks, Brett will go over the financials and guidance. This will include an overview of the benefits of tax reform and the strategic choices we're making to further strengthen our business."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The supercenter assortment is a big advantage, and we want to deliver low prices across the store, which also helps us drive traffic to the store and manage margins across the entire store. So evaluate the price investment through that lens rather than just grocery. And the returns we're seeing there are attractive. You can see it in the store traffic."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And we're going to continue our strategy as it relates to those. We're not cutting short the eCommerce investments. I think part of what we're doing now is just letting the business mature and learning how to become stronger operationally in eCommerce."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"There may be a point this year and looking ahead where we want to be even more aggressive on eCommerce marketing, if we feel like those operational improvements are on the right path. We kind of watch that very continuously basically."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"As it relates to grocery delivery, we've had this small pilot going on with our own associates, and we'll continue to play around with that and learn what works there. But the expansion will happen through a variety of platforms. We'll use, depending on the spot in the country, different providers to get the product to the customer, and we'll be keeping an eye on NPS scores in particular."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our Online Grocery business has a really high Net Promoter Score, and we want to, as we start to grow delivery capabilities, ensure that the customer experience is as good through delivery as it is for pickup. So we've got some things to learn there, and it'll happen at a pace based on the customer experience."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Ed. Rob, we have time for one question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"That final question comes from Chuck Grom with Gordon Haskett."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Hi, thanks. Good morning. Doug, from a capital allocation standpoint, could you discuss a little bit about closing the 63 Sam's stores earlier? And then should we expect to see continued closings both in the U.S. and International? And then for Brett, on the digital side, could you shed some light on the growth between 1P and 3P for the e-com business? Thanks."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Sure. I'll take capital allocation first. If you go back a couple of years, you'll remember that we closed quite a few stores around the world, including the 100-some-odd Express stores in Walmart U.S., the smaller stores that we have been testing as a pilot -- as a format. We discontinued those and closed those."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"At that moment in time, we had been through all of the 11,600-plus units around the world, sitting through real estate, meeting, Brett, country by country and making choices about the portfolio. So we did a lot of that cleanup then. We didn't do Sam's Club at the time."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Tax reform gives us the opportunity to accelerate plans for the U.S. You may have seen our announcement last month about investing some of the proceeds in better wages and benefits for more than 1 million U.S. hourly associates. We'll also continue to lower prices for customers, improve technology in our business and accelerate grocery delivery in the United States."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"We were still working through a number of things, pacing things out, trying to put them in the right sequence. So the way I was thinking of it is let's make sure that the U.S. store business is strong. What do we need to make that work? That's where we made wage investments, price investments and cleaned up the portfolio. We've been focused on -- focusing on building an eCommerce business. That's still underway obviously. And then now we've turned our attention to Sam's Club."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We've got a strategy we believe in, a leadership team we're excited about, and we're investing in that business to drive comps up there. So it's just been a sequencing, and the bottom line is we've been through the portfolio. I can't tell you there will never be more closings. A store here and there, I think, makes sense, but we've been through the majority of that big work for now anyway."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Chuck, on your question of 1P and 3P, obviously, first part, they're part - they're both important to us. We want to satisfy that customer need. Sometimes, it's better done through first party; sometimes, it's better done through third party. As you know, we have about 75 million SKUs now on our Marketplace site."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And it's another one of those levers that we've talked about -- I was talking about earlier that we have in order to determine how we best fulfill that customer need in a way that makes sense for both top line and bottom line."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Well, thanks, guys. We certainly appreciate you joining our call today. And have a great day."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you all."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and we thank you for your participation."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now let's get into more details for the segments, and I'll start with Walmart U.S. We had a strong year of top line growth, and we're seeing signs that the productivity loop is turning. In our stores, we're making shopping easier and equipping associates to serve customers more efficiently."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In the fourth quarter, we took steps to restructure our store leadership teams and corporate support areas to be more nimble. We're becoming more efficient, and it's contributing to the expense leverage that physical stores have delivered all year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Beginning this week, we increased the U.S. starting hourly wage rate to $11. We're also proud to announce adoption benefits for associates that went into effect earlier this month in addition to expanded paid parental leave for all associates that will take effect in March. Investing in our associates will help us attract and retain talent in the future."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In addition, we've invested in nearly 200 training academies that have further developed the retail skills of more than 250,000 associates. So our stores are executing better. We\u2019re innovating more. We\u2019re lowering prices and customers are responding with higher sales and traffic. As I mentioned earlier this has also been a year of good progress in ecommerce. We launched free 2-day shipping on Walmart.com, and customers continue to love Online Grocery pickup. We're expanding our test of same-day and next-day delivery, and our Walmart.com assortment has grown to nearly 75 million SKUs."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Acquisitions like Bonobos and ModCloth bring unique, private-branded products to our shopping experience. In addition, partnerships like the agreement with Lord & Taylor will help create specialty experiences that complement our own assortment with more brands customers want."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Jet.com complements Walmart.com nicely. Walmart.com, including Online Grocery, is and has been the key driver of our eCommerce growth and that will continue. The Jet brand over indexed with higher-income, urban, millennial customers when we made the acquisition, and we intend to build on that strength going forward."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The cost to acquire a new customer on a nationwide basis is cheaper with the Walmart brand so we've been investing more in Walmart.com on a national basis and reducing marketing investment in Jet, except in certain urban markets."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Rob. Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining us today to discuss Walmart's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2018 results. Joining us on today's call are Walmart President and CEO, Doug McMillon; and CFO, Brett Biggs. Doug and Brett will have some opening remarks in a minute, and then we'll take your questions. We'll do our best to get to as many of you as possible."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Due to this change, Jet will not grow as quickly as it did in early days but it will be well positioned where we've chosen to focus the brand. We'll continue to evaluate ourselves on the total U.S. eCommerce growth number."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Moving to Sam's Club. You'll remember that we made a decision to close 63 Sam's Club locations in the U.S. We've talked about transforming the Sam's business, and part of this transformation means managing the club portfolio to include clubs that are both financially viable and that fit within the strategic framework for the future."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Closing stores and clubs is difficult. It's obviously difficult for our impacted associates, and there is never a good time to do with. John and the Sam's team are working to place as many of them as possible at nearby locations. These closures will help us run a healthier business."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We also took additional steps recently to align resources around the initiatives that are most important to our members. We enhanced the value of the Plus membership with a free shipping proposition. We also made the decision to remove tobacco from certain clubs."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In addition, Sam's Club changed its merchandising structure to encourage more expertise and continuity in buying roles. The strategy continues to come to life, and we're already seeing progress."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our International team continues to deliver consistently solid results. While Walmex led the way this year, our good performance was broad-based. In fact, 10 of our 11 markets posted positive comp sales for the year, and 5 of those markets grew comp sales by more than 5%."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"To give a little more detail, Walmex comp store sales increased 6% this year, and we're really proud of how the team is combining our stores with eCommerce to deliver a convenient, seamless shopping experience."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"As we mentioned in our October Investment Community Meeting, there's more work to be done on the portfolio. We've set priorities, focused our - on our North American core and key growth markets, including China and India."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"During the fourth quarter, we made the decision to wind down the Brazil first-party eCommerce business. We always want our resources aimed at winning in the most strategic places."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So overall, the International segment continues to make steady progress as we find new ways to serve customers more effectively through stores and eCommerce."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We're excited to be hosting this call today. You may have seen in our press release announcing this call that we've made a process change to have a live earnings call with executives in conjunction with our fourth quarter results going forward."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In conclusion, we have a plan that leverages our unique assets and strengths to benefit customers and shareholders. It's resulting in momentum. We're being disciplined about cost and capital, and we're acting faster as a company but are pushing to increase our speed."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you for your interest in Walmart. Brett, you want to pick up there?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"All right. Thanks, Doug. Good morning, everyone. We're pleased with the company's performance during the fourth quarter and for the full year. We've made progress on several fronts, and we have good momentum across the business as we enter the new fiscal year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Adjusted EPS for the quarter was $1.33 and $4.42 for the fiscal year. GAAP EPS of $0.73 for the fourth quarter and $3.28 for the fiscal year was negatively impacted by a number of discrete items totaling $0.60 and $1.14, respectively."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Most of these items position the business for more efficient growth going forward, including closing 63 Sam's Clubs locations to create a more viable fleet and healthier business."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In addition, we discontinued real estate projects in the U.S., following our decision to open fewer stores and clubs, with greater emphasis on comp sales and eCommerce growth."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We also completed our third bond tender of the year to take advantage of more favorable interest rates. A full reconciliation of GAAP EPS to adjusted EPS is included in today's earnings release."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"During the quarter, we had additional EPS headwind related to some smaller unplanned items and expenses we incurred as we pulled forward initiatives in order to take advantage of a higher tax deduction. These were only partially offset by slightly more favorable currency exchange rates."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Before we get to the results, I'd like to highlight some accomplishments for the full year. Total revenue surpassed $500 billion for the first time and increased $15.1 billion or 3.1% in constant currency."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Walmart U.S. comp sales grew 2.1%, the highest growth rate since fiscal 2009, led by traffic growth of 1.4%. Walmart U.S. eCommerce sales grew 44%, reaching $11.5 billion. We made good progress on expenses, especially in Walmart U.S. stores and International. Without the discrete items mentioned in arriving at adjusted EPS, we would have leveraged expenses."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"It feels appropriate that we share our thoughts as we wrap up one year and begin another. Also, this timing is well spaced from our June and October meetings. We plan to follow our typical earnings release process for other quarters during our fiscal year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Adjusted EPS increased 2%. Operating cash flow was $28.3 billion. The company returned $14.4 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, and strong working capital improvements continued."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Let's move on to the quarter. We delivered a solid quarter to finish out the year as constant-currency revenue grew 3.1% to $135.1 billion. Comp sales were positive in all 3 segments with growth of 2.6% and 2.4% at Walmart U.S. and Sam's Club, respectively."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"On a 2 year stack basis, comp sales accelerated for the third consecutive quarter for both of these segments at 4.4% and 4.8%, respectively. Even more encouraging is that these results were driven by strong in-store traffic. International grew net sales 2.8% in constant currency, led by strength at Walmex."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Consolidated gross profit margin declined 61 basis points. Approximately two thirds of the decline was driven by price investments in certain markets and the mix effect from our growing eCommerce business. The remaining one third was driven by Sam's Club inventory markdowns associated with closures and other International items, including the wind down of our Brazil first-party eCommerce business. Looking ahead to fiscal 2019, we'll continue to make investments that will pressure the rates some but not to the extent of this quarter."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Similar to our full year results, SG&A and operating income were significantly impacted by charges for discrete items. Excluding these items, we would have leveraged expenses in the quarter and operating income would have decreased less than 1%."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Let's move on to U.S. eCommerce. As Doug mentioned, the slowdown in growth during the quarter was a bit more than we planned. Looking ahead, we have a number of new initiatives planned for the year. We expect eCommerce growth to increase from the Q4 level as we enter the New Year, with about 40% growth for the year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Now let's discuss the results for each operating segment during the quarter, beginning with Walmart U.S. The U.S. team continued to produce strong top line growth. Customers are responding well to our everyday low prices and the convenience we're providing through a variety of initiatives. All store formats had positive comps, and we saw strength in key categories with increased customer traffic and units."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"During the fourth quarter, comp sales increased 2.6%, led by traffic growth of 1.6%. Comp sales performance on a 2 year stack was the best in 8 years, and eCommerce contributed approximately 60 basis points to the segment."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Gross margin rate declined 50 basis points in the quarter due primarily to price investments, higher transportation expenses and mix effects from our growing eCommerce business."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Also, the team leveraged operating expenses slightly even when considering adjustments for discrete items in both current and prior year periods. Overall, we like the momentum we see in Walmart U.S. Our strategy is working, and customers are responding."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Now before I turn the call over to Doug, let me remind you that today's call is being recorded and will include forward-looking statements. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from these statements. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the factors identified in our earnings release and in our filings with the SEC. Please review our entire safe harbor statement and non-GAAP reconciliations on our website at stock.walmart.com."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"International had another solid quarter. The teams around the world have done a nice job of delivering top line growth through a focus on price as well as strength in fresh and private brands. Growth was broad-based across the markets, and results at Walmex were particularly strong."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Overall, net sales in constant currency increased 2.8% and grew 6.7% on a reported basis. Changes in currency rates benefited net sales by approximately $1.2 billion. It's also important to note the divestitures of Yihaodian and Suburbia created a headwind to sales of about $400 million when compared to last year."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"From a profitability standpoint, fourth quarter operating income decreased 16.1% in constant currency and 10.9% on a reported basis. As detailed in this morning's release, restructuring and impairment charges in certain markets negatively impacted operating income. Without these items, operating income would have increased year-over-year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Overall, we're pleased with the consistent performance we've seen from our International business, and we feel good about the year ahead."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sam's delivered solid top line results. Comp sales without fuel increased 2.4%, led by traffic increase of 4.3%. Tobacco negatively impacted comp sales by 120 basis points. ECommerce growth was solid and contributed 80 basis points to the comp."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Also in the eCommerce space, the team recently announced the free shipping offer from SamsClub.com for Plus members. The team is moving quickly and making decisions that we believe will benefit our members and the business over time."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I'll close today with guidance. As always, we have a number of assumptions on our guidance, including the economic conditions and the tax and regulatory landscape, and our largest markets remain generally consistent."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"You'll recall that we issued fiscal year 2019 guidance last October at our meeting for the investment community. Since that time, we made some decisions and assessed other potential opportunities to accelerate investments, particularly - primarily as a result of tax reform."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Let me start with our expectations related to tax reform. Our estimates are based on available information and our current analysis regarding the application of the new law."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We expect our effective tax rate for fiscal 2019 to be 24% to 26% compared with our previous guidance prior to tax reform of 32.5%. Our global blended rate is higher than the new U.S. federal rate due to state taxes and taxes we pay outside of the U.S."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And with that, it's my pleasure to turn the call over to Doug McMillon."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In terms of cash flow, in addition to the income statement benefit from a lower U.S. tax rate, we expect an additional cash tax benefit due primarily to accelerated depreciation."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Including all aspects of tax reform, we currently expect a cash benefit of around $2 billion for the year. Additionally, we are reviewing our cash positions overseas in light of the new law but have not made any decisions regarding potential repatriation."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Our priorities for capital allocation remain unchanged. We'll focus first on investing on our business and other growth initiatives. We also remain committed to our dividend, as evidenced by the increase we announced today. And we announced a $20 billion share repurchase program back in October."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We've consistently talked about investing in the business for the long term while balancing near-term results. As tax reform is taking shape, we took the opportunity to step back and assess various aspects of the business, including potential investments. We will continue to be aggressive but thoughtful to ensure we win long term."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We recently announced some additional investments related to increased wages, training and benefits for our associates in the U.S. In addition to that, we'll look to accelerate investments in our customers through lower prices, and we'll make investments in technology, supply chain and eCommerce to better position the company for the future. We'll also continue to prioritize winning with customers in our grocery and fresh business, ensuring we make shopping with us simple and at a great value."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"At the October meeting, Doug talked about some decisions we had in the Q, but it was too early to comment further at that time. During the quarter we took several actions, including: a wind down of the first-party eCommerce business in Brazil, the closure of 63 Sam's Clubs locations in the U.S. and the decision to remove tobacco from certain locations at Sam's. These decisions impact the guidance we gave in October, particularly in regards to total sales growth, so I'll quantify the impacts and compare back to the October guidance."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Let's first talk about Brazil eCommerce. We expect a headwind to sales of approximately $500 million related to the wind down of the first-party portion of the business. In terms of profit, the benefit of fewer operating losses will be largely offset by onetime costs associated with the wind down."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"As for Sam's, we anticipate a negative impact to sales of about $6.3 billion related to the decisions to close clubs and remove tobacco from certain locations. Additionally, recall that we sold our Suburbia business in Mexico in the second quarter of last year, and this will create a headwind in the first quarter of this year."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"The combined top line impact of these items will negatively impact consolidated net sales growth by about 140 basis points. And as a result, we now expect net sales growth to range between 1.5% and 2% in constant currency. Adjusting for these changes, this growth compares to the guidance of at or above 3% that we provided in October."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"As for comp sales, we expect growth at Walmart U.S. of at least 2%. Sam's Club comps excluding fuel and tobacco should range between 3% and 4% and flat to negative 1% when including the impact of reduced tobacco sales. We expect International total net sales growth to be around 3% in constant currency."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. We just completed an exciting year with solid fourth quarter results and continued momentum in the business. On a constant-currency basis, total revenue grew approximately 3% both in the quarter and for the full year. We reached more than $500 billion in revenue for the fiscal 2018 for the first time as a company."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Our October guidance for fiscal 2019 also included expectations for expense leverage, relatively steady operating income margin and EPS growth of around 5%. The incremental investments mentioned earlier will pressure operating expenses more than anticipated in October."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"On a consolidated basis, we still expect to slightly leverage expenses but not to the extent we originally planned. Excluding the impact of the reduction in Sam's Club sales, leverage would be stronger. Overall, cost management is continuing to improve across the business, and we remain pleased with the progress."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"As for operating margin, we expect consolidated operating income as a percentage of net sales to be approximately 4.3% to 4.4% in constant currency, resulting in a low single-digit percentage decrease in operating income versus operating income this past year, adjusted for the discrete items."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Considering all of these items, we expect full year EPS to be in a range of $4.75 and $5, an increase of 7% to 13% compared with adjusted EPS of $4.42 in fiscal 2018. This range represents an increase from the guidance given in October."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Additional guidance is included in the materials we issued this morning, so please reference these documents as you analyze our outlook. Going forward, we're moving to an annual guidance framework with quarterly updates as warranted."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We considered a number of factors when making this decision, including management's long-term view of the business, the transformation of the business, the investment time horizon of many of our shareholders and the uncertainty of the timing of investments during the year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"There could be fluctuations within the quarters, but we believe EPS growth will be relatively consistent across the year. We look forward to updating you on our progress throughout the year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So with that, I'll close by saying thank you to our shareholders for your support of Walmart. And now I'd be happy, along with Doug, to take your questions."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you. [Operator Instructions] Thank you. And our first question comes from the line of Simeon Gutman with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your questions."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Thanks. Good morning, guys. And thanks for doing the call. My first question is on the e-com growth in the fourth quarter relative to next year. You mentioned some operational issues. Can you elaborate and then talk about what gives you confidence that the e-com run rate will accelerate heading into next year?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"For the quarter, Walmart U.S. delivered strong comp sales growth of 2.6% due primarily to improved comp traffic growth in stores of 1.6%. Strength was broad-based across merchandising categories, formats and regions, and holiday sales were solid. In addition, comp store inventory declined again for the 11th consecutive quarter so we're well positioned as we begin the year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hi, Simeon. This is Doug. Happy to elaborate a bit more. First of all, I would say that, as we try to communicate in our remarks, most of that was expected and planned. As we came around the fourth quarter and looked at what we did last year promotionally, realized we're lapping Jet for sometime now, we've expected a lower growth rate."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"The minority of the miss that was more operational in nature that we're referring to is related to the fact that, during the seasonal spikes, seasonal inventory, think electronics, toys, gifts, things like that, came into our fulfillment centers and there was enough cube that it harmed our basic in-stock on more everyday items, and our basic in-stock for eCommerce suffered as a result."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So we're learning how to deal with higher volumes and learning how to deal with a higher peak than what we had previously. But again, that was the minority of the issue. Most of this was planned and in our numbers."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And Simeon, just to remind -- this is Brett. As a reminder, in October, we've guided to $11.5 billion of revenue for Walmart U.S. eCommerce, and that's just about where we came in for the year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. And then if I can ask my follow-up. Brett, you mentioned you were doing the comparison with pre- and post-October guidance. So I think at that point, EBIT was supposed to be up maybe low single digits, and now it's going to be down a little bit."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Can you just tell us if the entirety of that change is tax reform spending? Or is any part of it reflective of higher cost in the business in some form or another?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, Simeon. I still remain -- feel good about the cost management in the business, and we're making progress there. When we've given guidance back in October, we've talked about an operating income range that would be similar to where we had kind of been."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So as we step back and we looked at everything, we've decided to make these investments that we talked about, and that's all included in the guidance that's there today."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And so it's -- that one is a little bit tougher to compare pre and post, but when you look at the investments that we're making, that is the difference. But I feel good about the overall cost management side of the business."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, Simeon. Rob, next question please?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Good morning, and welcome to The Kroger Company Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call. All participants are in a listen-only mode. [Operator Instructions]. After today's presentation there will be an opportunity to ask questions. [Operator Instructions]. Please note this event is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to Rebekah Manis, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you, Laura. Good morning and thank you for joining us. Before we begin, I want to remind you that today\u2019s discussions will include forward-looking statements. We want to caution you that such statements are predictions and actual events or results can differ materially. A detailed discussion of the many factors that we believe may have a material effect on our business on an ongoing basis is contained in our SEC filings, that Kroger assumes no obligation to update that information."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We are very pleased with the growth of digital sales at Kroger. In 2018, our digital sales run rate was about $5 billion. Going forward, we are trending towards a run rate of approximately $9 billion. Kroger also grew our brands to reach a record 30.5% unit share in the fourth quarter. We introduced a 1,022 new items in 2018, which helped drive strong year-over-year sales lift across our portfolio of brands."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great, thanks. So just a follow-up on that food inflation you've mentioned it was 39 basis points. So I am just wondering how much -- how you'd expect that to trend in 2019 and also just your ability to pass that amount or even may be a greater than that in terms of customer?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yeah, our expectations for inflation in 2019 is relatively benign. But I would say the way it gets passed on depends a lot about where the inflation comes from. Is it in a category where we have a specific pricing program that we want to stay committed to or is it in a category where it might be a little easier to pass on and others are passing it on along as well. So, it really depends exactly where you wind up seeing the inflation whether or not it gets passed along and how quickly gets passed along."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Right, makes sense and then just you know with a lot of discussion in the press about Amazon opening up physical stores, how would you characterize the level of risk to larger conventional food retailers from that move and what are kind of things that are maybe embedded in terms of your competitive positioning and your footprint that would help to offset that?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Well a couple of things. First of all as you know we embarked upon creating an omnichannel experience for our customers almost five years ago now. And if you look at the feedback our customers give us we're increasingly being able to help it -- help the customer make it easier for them to get what they want. And what we find is when customers are engaged digitally they still come into the physical store and they also spend more with us in total. So our teams have done a great job of being able to create that and make sure that we keep that customer connection and continuing to improve that customer connection. The thing that we've had for years is we have 4060000 associates out there that are just every day working hard to serve our customers and each other. The quality of our fresh product continues to get better and better and it's a competitive advantage. When you take all of those things together and we have a lot of great physical locations that are high quality sites that have been accumulated over several years, it's really all of those things together. In terms of what will cause a customer to want to come from us and partner with us and for us to be able to give them an experience they can't get somewhere else. And very excited about where we are and as Gary mentioned in the prepared remarks from a digital standpoint we would expect that to become a tailwind in 2019."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great, thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks Greg, appreciate it. As always thank you for everyone's call. As I mentioned at the beginning we understand and acknowledge that we have our work cut out for us in the market showed at this morning. But I want to emphasize that we are incredibly confident about the future of Kroger especially with Restock Kroger. One of the exciting things about our earnings call also is that many of our associates listen in to better understand and gain insight on our business. And of course many of our associates are shareholders as well."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So as always before we end today's call I'd like to share a few comments directed toward them. As I mentioned earlier in our prepared remarks Kroger believes in strengthening the communities where we do business, within our supply chain, across our communities, and in our stores. And you don't have to look far to see how much that strength comes from women. This month we're excited to recognize all the women across the Kroger Enterprise who worked day in and day out to exemplify our purpose to feed the human spirit. Kroger employs more 250,000 women who work in our stores, manufacturing, and distribution plants, and offices. A growing number of nearly 500 women owned businesses here in the U.S. are Kroger suppliers and through our commitment to source foods that are fair trade certified as part of our simple truth product line. We are proud to support women owned cooperatives and businesses internationally including women led tea farms in Rwanda. Kroger is proud to join in today's celebration of the International Women's Day and we are lighting up our headquarters building in Cincinnati tomorrow to celebrate."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you to all of our customers, associates, and suppliers who make our business successful every year of every day -- every day of every year. I also want to have one last thank you for Mike, 77 calls is a heck of a lot of calls. Mike has been a great friend and partner in this journey and Gary, congratulations I'm incredibly looking forward to working with you and for you to be able to build on the things that Mike has put in place and working with his team. So congratulations. That completes our call today, thanks for joining."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The conference is now concluded. Thank you for attending today's presentation. You may now disconnect."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Simple Truth continued to lead the way with a 15.3% sales growth in 2018 making it a $2.3 billion brand. Kroger unveiled several transformative partnerships to create customer value in 2018. Home Chef continues to grow and shape today's meal solution space. In February, we announced Home Chef's expansion to 500 more locations and six new store divisions. Our pilots with Walgreens, Microsoft, and Nuro continue to generate great customer insights. The Nuro pilot in Scottsdale is nearly complete and we are planning to enter another market early this year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We remain optimistic about all the ways our partnership with Ocado will set Kroger up for accelerated growth in the future. In February, we announced Florida and the mid Atlantic region is where we plan to build the next two Ocado sheds in addition to the first location planned for Southwest Ohio."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In 2018, we accelerated investments in associates and significantly improved employee retention in one of the tightest labor markets in years. And we were thrilled to be recognized on Fortune magazine's Change The World 2018 list for using Kroger\u2019s scale for good, engaging our business to solve society's most complex issues through Kroger\u2019s Zero Hunger, Zero Waste social impact plan. This groundwork positions us to deliver on our 2020 Restock Kroger targets including financials and transform the company for long-term growth."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I want to take a few minutes to talk in more detail about our alternative businesses. Successful long-term businesses constantly explore new directions and adjacencies to grow their top and bottom lines. That's why in February we announced the appointment of Stuart Aitken to the newly created role of Senior Vice President, Alternative Business. In this new role, Stuart is assuming oversight for Kroger's successful existing alternative profit businesses including 84.51 in Kroger Personal Finance. Stuart will also lead the development of a full portfolio of alternative businesses to support the transformation of Kroger's business model and to better support our customers in supermarket business."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Kroger Personal Finance, 84.51, and Media all beat their operating profit targets for the year. This was very encouraging as these are the biggest line items in our alternative profit businesses. We used some of the excess profit to invest into other new alternative profit streams to begin seeding our margin-rich, asset-light businesses of the future."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"In 2019 we expect 20% profit growth in our alternative businesses and we will also launched a few more new businesses that are both symbiotic to our core and deliver high margins. Plainly stated Restock Kroger is all about transforming our growth model. We will grow market share by creating a virtuous cycle built on our grocery business. At the core is a winning combination of unmatched local presence coupled with a digital ecosystem that enables us to offer our customers anything, anytime, anywhere. We are enhancing the customer ecosystem with partnerships that are helping us to redefine the customer experience by building incredible physical and digital experiences, a fantastic offering, and an unprecedented convenience."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"A constantly improving customer ecosystem generates traffic, customer data, and insights which then fuel the growth of adjacent alternative profit streams. We see tremendous potential in these asset light margin rich businesses built on the foundation of an omnichannel grocery experience. The profits generated by these businesses will create shareholder value and generate cash to invest in Kroger's core so we can further redefine the grocery customer experience. This is how Kroger's new growth model is a virtuous cycle."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Above all Restock Kroger positions Kroger to create long-term shareholder value. We have a clear path to achieve the 400 million in incremental FIFO operating profit growth and $6.5 billion in cumulative Restock cash flow by the end of 2020. We finished 2018 with sales and business momentum. We expect earnings growth and an improving supermarket business in 2019. Now here is Mike to share more details on our fourth quarter and fiscal 2018 results, Mike."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks Rodney and good morning everyone. Reflecting on Rodney's comments to start the call it's kind of surreal to know that this is my 77th and final earnings call as CFO. I'm thrilled to be transitioning the role to Gary who is a terrific partner and will be an excellent Chief Financial Officer. Looking at our results for 2018 I'm very proud of the entire team at Kroger for delivering on the key Restock Kroger commitments we made back in October of 2017. Planning the first year of a three year plan is always the toughest and most critical since everything that follows builds on the foundation that gets built. We feel great about the foundation we have build which sets us up to create shareholder value while continuing to make strategic investments to grow the business."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Both our fourth quarter press release and our prepared remarks from this conference call will be available on our website at ir.kroger.com. After our prepared remarks, we look forward to taking your questions. In order to cover a broad range of topics from as many of you as we can, we ask that you please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question, if necessary. Thank you."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"There were a variety of factors that affected fourth quarter on either the OG&A or gross profit line. As a result of better retention and higher average hourly rate our vacation accrual was a $0.02 headwind in the quarter and incentive pay because of achieving the ID sales we did and the EPS was a $0.06 headwind. Both of these affected OG&A. As I said, our incentive plan was primarily based on the grid of EPS and ID sales. As EPS got closer to the top end of the range we were incentivized to continue to make sustainable investments in our business to grow sales. Some of these investments were in our supply chain for both supermarket business as well as Kroger Ship. On a combined basis this was about $0.04 per share. These items affected gross profit. When you add these together it was about a $0.12 headwind to the fourth quarter, a lot of which is something that we're going to be able to build on for the future."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Our cents per gallon fuel margin in the fourth quarter was $0.34 compared to $19.08 in the same quarter last year. The average retail price of fuel was $2.34 versus $2.46 in the same quarter last year which affected total revenue. For 2018 our cents per gallon fuel margin was $25.02 compared to $20.06 for the year before. The average retail price for fuel for 2018 was $2.66 compared to $2.36 in 2017. The solid investments that we've made in 2018 will help the supermarket business have a better 2019 overall. We do however expect fuel to deliver lower operating profit margin in 2019 compared to 2018."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Identical sales momentum continued into the fourth quarter where our ID sales result was about 10 basis points improvement over last year's fourth quarter. There's no doubt that weather events and the acceleration of SNAP disbursements helped ID sales results in the fourth quarter. It's difficult to distinguish between the two because they occurred at essential the same time. Combined snow and snap helped ID sales by 44 basis points in the quarter. We continue to feel good about our ability to meaningfully connect with customers who rely on SNAP to supplement their food purchases."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"While space optimization was a slight headwind versus a slight tailwind we expected, we saw a strong progress. Stores that have been open for 12 weeks and unaffected by new competitor had positive results in the quarter. And admittedly this is taking longer than we originally expected but we are pleased to see this resolved. In 2018 we completed the most disruptive of the remodels. As we go through 2019 the work will be more targeted and therefore less disruptive to our customers. All in all the time for space optimization is turning as we head into 2019."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"FIFO operating profit for the fourth quarter was $621 million compared to $782 million in the same period last year without the 53rd week and in 2018 and 2017 adjustment items. For the full year FIFO operating profit was 2.84 billion compared to 3.13 billion in the same period last year without the 53rd week and the 2018 and 2017 adjustment items and excluding the convenience stores. This was above our goal for the year and as Gary will discuss in a few minutes we expect to grow again in 2019 and we remain committed to reaching our Restock Kroger goal in 2020."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Kroger's financial strategy is to use its free cash flow to drive growth while also maintaining its current investment grade debt rating and returning capital to shareholders. The company actively balances the use of cash to achieve these goals. Over the last four quarters Kroger has used cash to invest a combined $589 million in Ocado Securities and Home Chef, contribute $185 million pretax to a company sponsored pension plan, repurchase 79 million common shares for $2 billion which includes 1.2 billion repurchased with after tax proceeds from the sale of Kroger's convenience store business under an accelerated stock repurchase plan."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We paid $437 million in dividends and invested $3 billion in capital excluding mergers, acquisitions, and purchase of lease facilities. We remain committed to generating the 6.5 billion of Restock cash flow by 2020 as part of Restock Kroger and in 2019 we delivered 1.9 billion. Kroger's net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio on a 52 week basis is 2.83. We intend to use our free cash flow to bring the leverage ratio back into the target range of 2.3 to 2.5 times. The company's intention is to not buy stock back until we get into that range as we did in the third and fourth quarters of 2018."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"We're investing in incremental $500 million on our associates over the three years of Restock Kroger. This is happening in a variety of ways including investments and wages, training and development. In 2018 we made significant investments in wages and used tax reform dollars to invest in our educational systems program, Feed Your Future. We also increase the 401K match for non-union associates among other benefits aimed at an improved associate experience. This was in addition to our continued efforts to rebalance paying benefits while also focusing on certifications and performance incentives, clear opportunities, and training. The average hourly rate for our store associates is more than $18 per hour when you factor in our comprehensive benefits that many competitors do not offer."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Looking now at labor contracts we recently ratified a new labor agreement with the UFCW covering Smiths in Albuquerque. We are currently negotiating with the UFCW for contracts covering the store associates, at King Soopers in Denver, Fred Meyer in Portland, Ralston in Southern California, and Kroger in Memphis. Looking ahead we have several major negotiations in 2019 including contracts for UFCW store associates in Seattle, Las Vegas, Indianapolis, Louisville. Our objective in every negotiation is to find a fair and reasonable balance between competitive costs and compensation packages that provide solid wages, good quality affordable healthcare, and retirement benefits for our associates. We continue to strive to make our overall benefit package relevant to today's associates. Our financial results continue to be pressured by inefficient healthcare and pension cost which some of our competitors do not face. We continue to communicate with our local unions and the international unions which represent many of our associates on the importance of growing our business in a profitable way which will help us create more jobs and career opportunities and enhance job security for our associates."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Before I hand it off, I want to reiterate again that the first year of a three plan year -- a three year plan is it's difficult to land the first year. But when you step back to review the full year we feel great about delivering on our financial commitments while continuing to make the investments that will position Kroger for growth in the future. This solid foundation sets us up to transform Kroger and to deliver in 2019 and 2020. And now I'll turn it over to Gary to discuss how we are building this momentum in 2019. Gary."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I will now turn the call over to Kroger's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Rodney McMullen."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks Mike and good morning everyone. It's a pleasure to join the call today and more specifically speak to Kroger's upcoming year about what we are committing to and how it aligns with the Restock program. The 2019 identical sales growth excluding fuel we are targeting identical sales that range from 2% to 2.25%. We expect net earnings to range from $2.15 to $2.25 per diluted share and FIFO operating profit to range from $2.9 billion to $3 billion for 2019. The low end of our range is above the current consensus estimate for 2019."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Kroger's EPS growth is expected to come from FIFO operating profit growth in 2019 which positions us well to deliver the incremental 400 million in FIFO operating profit by the end of 2020 through Restock program."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I'd like to spend a few moments underscoring Kroger's future growth model because the clear path to $400 million in incremental FIFO operating profit includes alternative profit streams. And although these high margin and asset life businesses going to have a major impact on our top line in the near term, they play a significant role in helping us achieve bottom line growth."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"I have made it a priority to join Mike and Rebekah already for several investor meetings. We as an Investor Relations team recognize and appreciate the request to better understand how to model alternative profit streams going forward. Please know that our finance team is spending time on this very topic including a review of industry best practices with the goal of providing more detail in the future."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In 2018 there were several Restock Kroger successes that have created tailwinds we believe will help us continue to grow sales and achieve incremental FIFO operating profit in 2019. We pulled forward price, digital and store investments in 2018 in part using tax reform dollars which will create tailwinds for sales and operating profit in 2019. We achieved significant cost savings in 2018 and have plans to accelerate this momentum in 2019. Our largest alternative businesses Kroger Personal Finance, 84.51 and Media all beat their operating profit targets in 2018 and our plans for continued growth. And while investing to build a seamless ecosystem remained a headwind to earnings in 2018, that dynamic is beginning to shift."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"As Mike shared in his comments earlier fuel is expected to be a headwind in 2019 compared to last year. The strength of fuel margins in 2018 helped us make investments that set the supermarket business up well for 2019. But we do expect softer fuel results this year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Looking at the cadence of EPS throughout the year we expect the first quarter to be comparable to the first quarter of 2018. The second and third quarters to be within our annual guidance range and the fourth quarter to be above the guidance range which will allow the full year to align within the range. We anticipate that momentum will build throughout the year and put Kroger in a position of strength going into 2020. We laid the foundation in 2018 which we will now building in 2019 to deliver our 2020 commitments. This includes Restock cash flow. We delivered what we expected in 2018 setting us up to meet our 6.5 billion cumulative Restock cash flow commitment by the end of 2020. We expect capital investments excluding mergers, acquisitions, and purchases of lease facilities to range between 3 billion and 3.2 billion in 2019. This number will likely grow in future years as we announce Ocado shares."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"As Mike also shared earlier in the short-term our intention is to use free cash flow to bring our leverage ratio back into our target range of 2.3 to 2.5. AND finally we anticipate Kroger's 2019 tax rate to be approximately 22%."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Before I turn it back to Rodney let me say that I'm incredibly grateful to Mike who has put together a thoughtful week-by-week transition plan. He really has been the best partner I could ask for when transitioning to the role of Kroger's future CFO. Thank you Mike. I'm personally very energized to be in a sector that is transforming as quickly as grocery retail. The way we think about the fundamentals of retail is rapidly evolving which will make the next few years incredibly interesting for the financial stakeholders who follow this space. And now I will turn it back to Rodney."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you Gary. As America's grocer Kroger has the winning combination of local presence plus a digital ecosystem enhanced by strategic partnerships enabling us to offer our customers anything, anytime, anywhere. We are transforming from grocer to growth company by deploying our assets to serve even more customers and create margin rich alternative profit streams. We are well positioned to deliver on our Restock Kroger vision to serve America through food inspiration and uplift. Now we look forward to your questions."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you, Rebekah and good morning everyone. Before we get started, I want to acknowledge that the team here at Kroger realizes that we have our work cut out for us as the market points out this morning. We realize business transformations are hard, but I want to emphasize we are on track to deliver on our Restock Kroger commitments. We look forward to our time together to take your questions and try to better lay things out for you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"[Operator Instructions]. Our first question will come from Karen Short of Barclays."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Hey, thanks. So I guess the question I have and I know you try to encourage us not to look at your business in terms of the core and fuel and alternative profits, but you did kind of give us the slide at the Analyst Day with that depicted so it's hard not to look at your business this way, but when I look at the full year 2018 and I try to break out what the core business actually did, the decline was fairly significant, like I'm kind of backing into almost 30% decline in the quarter. And I guess can you help me understand what the components of that are that are maybe just transitory? And then the second part I would just ask is obviously we were trying to think of you in a way that you're thinking of yourselves meaning as a growth company, but you need stability in your core to have the credit in your valuation for being a growth company. So maybe a little color on how you can attain that I guess stability and\/or grow your core?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I'll take that one Karen. Well obviously a lot of -- we have made a lot of investments in 2018 which affects a wide variety of different lines, and it's difficult to say obviously fuel had a good quarter and a good year. When you look at trying to back into the core, what do you do with digital which has been a headwind and we continue to invest in digital. If you don't back that headwind out and put that in the growing a new business category, yes that would drive the core down the way you do it. But if you look at the digital investments we've made along with the other investments we've made in the fourth quarter, I talked about, the new warehouses that we opened up to support our digital business. If you look at that all in the core, yes, the core declined. I won't go into a specific number, but it really is how you slice and dice all of this. All that said and I wouldn't necessarily discourage you from looking at the different pieces of the business because we do have to do a better job of helping you all understand and explain where the alternative profit streams are going to come from because some of them won't affect the top line, some of them will just be a profit, but when you're trying to transform the company and you have a first year of a plan, we take all of the pieces and all the available flows of profitability together and then decide how to invest them in which business which is what we did in 2018."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And with that said and Gary mentioned it, we will definitely do a better job helping you be able to see that insight because we certainly understand the question and it makes total sense."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Okay, and I guess just a follow-up then, so if we look at the 3.5 billion for 2020, I mean you're looking at an EBIT growth of 17% which is not something I've ever seen any grocer do in a year but is there anything that has changed in terms of each of the streams versus where you're at on your Analyst Day in terms of the growth rate?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Hi, this is Gary. I think we feel as I mentioned in the prepared comments we feel very good about the 2019 plans that we have for the business and kind of referring back to your question Karen that you asked and Mike answered, there's a lot of noise obviously in 2018 when you're going through a major year of transition, and we feel that as we head into the second year of the plan, as the pieces come together and we have the tailwinds from some of those investments that we made, we have a strong plan in place that we feel is going to make a difference to the way in which growth is occurring across the organization and where you'll see that in the results that we report out as we shared in the prepared comments."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I do think that as we head through 2019 and we're building on the plans that we put in place through Restock Kroger, we expect to see the investments that we made in 2019 start to come out in -- sorry, 2018 come through in 2019. And we have a very clear plan of what we expect those benefits then to deliver in 2020. So, I think we appreciate Rodney's comment that we have to give you a clearer view into how all those pieces fit together, but I wouldn't say there's anything materially changed in the plan that we have for the three years and that we're not seeing all the pieces come together in largely the way that we expected."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Karen, one more thing I would add on the calculation of the decline, and you may have done this but I would remind you that last year had a 53rd week, and you need to take -- obviously take that out when you compare 2017 and 2018 and I think last year we said that the extra week was worth $0.09 or so."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Yeah, hi guys, good morning. First thing I wanted to maybe just follow up on where Karen was going with this, I mean on the $400 million goal, if we just think about how you started year one which you say is on track but EBIT fell over $200 million, and it would've been down more if not for an epic fuel year. And the biggest decline was in Q4 even if you adjust for that extra week, and I know that you are reaffirming this target, but if you look at 2019 guidance it's got about $100 million improvement, and it does sound like and this is off of a big investment year, and it does sound like there are some things that should come back to you which implies a $550 million improvement in 2020. So why isn't there more progress I guess in 2019 given what you're going to lap, and then can you give us more comfort around how you see this growth in 2020, I mean obviously your stocks are down quite a bit today because I don't think the market's seeing progress, the market is kind of seeing the opposite. So if you could just help us to some extent here I think it would be good?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Ed a couple -- lot of thoughts there in your question. You know one of the one of the things I would point to relative to progress we're making is what Gary said in his prepared comments were if you look at operating profit guidance for next year it is above where the current consensus estimate is. So, in our mind that does demonstrate progress. When you talk about why wouldn't 2019 grow more given the investments we made in 2018, we are expecting a more usual year for fuel margins in 2019 versus 2018. We believe it would be -- it wouldn\u2019t be prudent to budget 2019 to replicate 2018 in fuel. So the core business and the alternative profit streams, digital not being as big of an investment. In fact, a little bit of a tailwind when you look at expected investments year-on-year. We first have to overcome in 2019 lower expected operating margin in fuel and then grow off of that. And as we've built the business plan with the 2 to 2.25 EBITDA or ID sales, that still gets us to an operating profit margin that's above Wall Street, and if you look at the high end of that range, it's essentially right at what Wall Street would be predicting for 2020."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Joining me on today's call are Mike Schlotman, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Gary Millerchip for the first time, Mike's successor who will become Kroger's CFO on April 4. As previously announced, Mike will continue to serve as EVP and a member of our senior team until the end of the year. We can't say enough how grateful the entire Kroger team is for Mike's service, leadership, and stewardship of the company for the last 34 years, especially during the last 19 as CFO. We are also incredibly fortunate to have Gary, whose deep finance and business background combined with his successful track record of creating shareholder value as a member of our senior officer team, makes him the right person to carry Kroger forward. This is especially true as Kroger transforms from grocer to growth company."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Ed, I mean we clearly understand your question and just in answer a little bit with what Mike and Gary was talking about, digital we do expect it to turn to tailwind versus a headwind. As you know we accelerated a lot of investments into 2018 that we expect those to pay off in 2019. Mike talked about some of those obviously space optimization is one of those. We continue to make great progress on taking cost out of the business. And when you look at all of those together then as Mike mentioned we also expect fuel to be a headwind when you look at next year total. So totally understand the question and when we look through in modeling all the pieces I do think it's important to note when you look at fourth quarter by itself the incremental $0.12 of charges that Mike talked about, most of which will not reoccur next year. Or if they do they'll be spread out throughout the year versus just in one quarter."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Okay, and a quick follow-up on the gross margin. The gross margin is down 93 basis points, it was certainly surprising, I mean it does sound like there are some onetime things in here, but can you just give us a little bit more detail on what happened, what is mix by the way, and what did you do in supply chain and then how do we think about the gross margin in 2019 because it's hard to get to your EBIT guidance without I think anyway flat to positive FIFO gross margins ex-fuel?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah, if you look at the fourth quarter decline about a third of it, maybe a little less than a third of it was from price investment, so kind of what we've been experiencing all year long. The other two thirds of it is a combination of start up costs for some new warehouses that negatively affected warehouse and transportation line, that expense line that's in the gross profit. As well as continued growth in primarily our Kroger Specialty Pharmacy team had a great year, very strong sales growth out of them. That is a high growth business that has as compared to our core business a dramatically lower gross margin rate. But because of the price of each one of those prescriptions is so high it generates very strong operating profit dollars in that business. So, those last two were about two thirds or so of the margin erosion and pricing was about a third."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I don't think I'm going to give guidance for OG&A and gross profit for next year. If you look at the ID sales, if you look at their earnings per share guidance and we gave you operating profit there are assumptions that you're going to have to make about where OG&A and gross profit are going to go next year. As Rodney said, some of those investments we made this year won't be as dramatic as next year. Things like digital not being a headwind and being a tailwind will help margins as well. So, we won't be opening new warehouses like we did in 2018 and those start up costs are what cost us on the margin line."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And our next question comes from John Heinbockle of Guggenheim Securities."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Let me start, when you think about over the next couple of years the alternative profit stream impact on margin rate, EBIT margin rate right, is the greater impact going to be on the gross margin line or the expense ratio line? And then when you guys talk about ex-fuel margin does that include the alternative profit streams today and will it in the future or you'll break that out?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"On the first question as I alluded to we are doing a lot of work right now to really decide how we best can share that story with you. Because I think as we've mentioned in the past the alternative businesses that we talk about have grown up a little bit as a legacy over the way they would have been within the Kroger business prior to what it was in 2017, identifying this as a big strategic growth area for the company and how do we truly leverage all the data and the knowledge that we have about the customer to try those alternative businesses across Kroger Personal Finance, the Media business and some of the other areas that we shared at the Analyst Meeting. So right now it would be reporting a number of different areas of the business and what we really want to do is to make sure that we're very deliberate in identifying and helping you -- provide you with a clearer picture of how you could see that more clearly as the business continues to accelerate growth in 2019 and 2020."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And John if you look at the OG&A and the margin rates excluding fuel, it would include those businesses. We would have a really long list of things to pull out if we didn't do it any other way."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Alright, so then as a follow-up is it possible based on what you said Gary, is it possible that there will be an alternative profit stream segment because again it's getting so significant and so different in the core business it doesn\u2019t make sense to break out separately for all of them combined, revenue and EBIT, is that something you're thinking about or amenable to? And then the last thing if you think about the core business what comp do you think you need to actually grow EBIT in the core business, is it 2, is it given the cost pressures is it higher, is it 3, what do you think?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yeah, I think to the first part of the question we are not rolling anything out right now, we're not committing either to what the answer would look like. We really want to make sure that we're deliberate about thinking through the best approach to make sure that we manage this business effectively but also can clearly demonstrate and show the story of the value it is driving to the bottom line. But certainly committed to reaching some conclusions on that and being clear in 2019 about how to think about this either."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I've talked before about the need for retail companies to constantly reinvent themselves in order to remain relevant. This constant reinvention takes place at least every decade. Gary has been instrumental in helping us think through our transformation as part of Restock Kroger and beyond. He is uniquely positioned to be Kroger's Chief Financial Officer of the future, and as such will also help shape the future of our omnichannel experience and reporting. During today's call, Mike will provide the financial and operations recap for the fourth quarter and full year 2018, and Gary will outline Kroger's guidance for 2019."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And certainly when you look at the longer term model 2% to 3% we would certainly agree with that and would see the same number. For the next couple of years that might be a little on the low end of that to drive earnings growth but overtime the sustainability of the model really needs 2% to 3% identical. I think it is important to note John that if you look at our productivity gains during the year not only from the great year we had from reducing our turnover which means we increased retention, as well as some operational efficiencies inside the store. Our productivity pretty much offset the higher investments we made in associates in the store."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And next we have a question from Paul Trussell of Deutsche Bank."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Good morning. Just wanted to touch base on the top line, the IDs over the past year were more in 1.5 to 1.9 range, and just wanted to be just maybe help us better understand the expectations to see acceleration in the business. to kind of above to maybe just speak give a little bit more color on what you're seeing in the stores that have gone through the optimization and we will start there? I have a follow-up, thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Love the question, look at the last part of your question on space optimization and as Mike mentioned in the prepared remarks it certainly has been I think longer than we expected but for the stores that have opened, then opened or remodeled longer than 12 weeks we're finally starting to see where that positively adds to our identical. And so it's been slower than we expected but it's nice to finally see. So obviously that's a piece of but we also expect to continue to see improvements from the investments that we made in 2018. If you look at tonnage in 2018 was actually stronger than what the identical sales growth would be and we continue to see people trading off in products and in size of products as well. So when you look at the maturation of remodels that we've done, continuing to improve the way we've significantly improved in stocks and some of the core business pieces. And tying that all together with the investments we've made is what gives us confidence in the 2% to 2.25% that we shared."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"One other thing I will add to that Rodney is when you look at quarter to date we are essentially right on top of where the fourth quarter was and the split between the core supermarket business and the alternative businesses is very similar to where the fourth quarter ended. I know there's a lot of rhetoric out there the pull forward of SNAP means we've started the year out more slowly. But we're essentially right on top of where the fourth quarter ended so far. We are in the first quarter now, it's a 16 week quarter, a long way to go but we are off to a start that helps us feel good about the guidance."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And Mike's point on SNAP definitely -- there were definitely a pull forward and when you look at SNAP by itself the first period of the year would be a headwind but if you look at other piece\u2026"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"It would be a headwind but we've filled that headwind with other sales in the supermarkets."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Just maybe one another piece of color to add to, as you think about the journey from Restock Kroger in 2018 and a lot of initiatives that we landed during the year that created some of the noise that Mike referred to, but really should start to build tailwinds into 2019. Rodney you mentioned that the turning point from a profitability impact of digital but as we continue to grow digital sales at the rates that we're seeing on a much bigger number that continues to have a bigger influence as we head into the outer years of Restock Kroger on the ID sales performance of the business. And then the work that we did in 2018 to invest in our own brands and driving significantly high customer engagements and as customers continue to deepen their relationship with our own brands is an important piece of the I think the opportunity that we see in 2019. And then finally the merger with Home Chef and what we're doing to expand the fresh food experience in the store and the meal kits opportunity, obviously only came in part way through the year and represents another opportunity that we see to ready build momentum in 2019 from 2018."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thank you, that's helpful color and somewhat related, curious what you're seeing over the past few months and what you're forecasting ahead on the inflation front and if you could just kind of comment a bit more on how we should think about price points given the higher input costs, are you seeing price points go higher and also to what extent or how would you describe kind of the price environment out there, is the environment rational? Thank you."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I don't know if I'll get -- the environment to rational or irrational. This is a competitive industry, it has always been a competitive industry. And we always built a business plan assuming it's going to be a little more competitive versus less competitive and if we get surprised when it's not more competitive it winds up being the help. If you think about inflation just in the fourth quarter and you take out few in pharmacy, cost inflation was less than that, it was about 39 basis points. When you added the pharmacy it get kicked up to 1.08 basis points. For the year it is actually without pharmacy with slight deflation on the year from a cost basis which may not reconcile with everything you're hearing about cost increases coming through. Our team has done a phenomenal job of going after cost of good savings in a variety of ways and keep in mind the numbers I'm talking about is what we pay for products based on how many of those units we have this year and last year and the price this year and last year. So, we've done a great job of being able to offset some of those cost increases you hear about."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In October 2017, we introduced Restock Kroger, our three-year plan to create shareholder value by serving America through food inspiration and uplift. The plan has four main drivers; redefine the grocery experience, partner for customer value, develop talent, and live our purpose. Combined, these drivers come together to create shareholder value. Specifically, we committed to $400 million in incremental FIFO operating profit growth and $6.5 billion in cumulative Restock cash flow by the end of 2020."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah, the other thing that I would add and we've talked about this before but when you look at some of the companies they've raised prices more than what the true cost is. And it really helps that our own brands are so strong because what we find is when somebody does that they end up giving up market share. And they give up market share to our own brands and over time we make more profit on our brands than we do selling the national brand. Now we're going to always give the customer a choice and we want to earn whatever we get but if somebody is pushing costs through more they'll end up giving up share when they do that."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you, best of luck."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The next question comes from Chris Mandeville of Jefferies."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Hey, good morning. Can we just start off again with 2019 guidance here, how much of this 100 million to 200 million EBIT growth is essentially going to be coming from your core grocery versus your alternative revenue streams and how are you thinking about the fuel margin in 2019? And then I suppose Mike, I can certainly understand that you don't want to go line for line on guidance but clearly the market is reacting to the negative 93 basis points gross margin results. So maybe just at the very least you could hold our hands a little bit going into the first half of the year on gross margins and how to think about that as alternative revenues become a greater component of your EBIT?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yeah, I understand your request to hold your hand a little bit but we're going to stick with the guidance we've given. And not get specific on gross margins and things like that. I would say a big chunk of the growth in operating profit margin for next year would be coming from the core business with ID sales like we talked about. We do expect as I said fuel to be a pretty dramatic headwind next year which leads us to the bottom line result of the guidance Gary talked about in his section."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"On fuel we would be pretty close to using our three year average on margin in terms of expectations of fuel. We do skew that a little bit to more recent times but it's pretty close to the three year average. On gross margin you should not expect a 93 basis point reduction in gross margin."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"That I agree with. And if you look at the model overall as you know we've accelerated a lot of the investments and some of the things showing up in growth is just the way the accounting shows in terms of warehouse and transportation costs. So those types of things we would not expect that same headwind."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay, so I suppose my quick follow-up to that just really is, we were expecting to see far less than 93 basis points in Q4 based on Q3 comments. So, just to be clear so long as we don't receive any type of material tailwind from fuel which we are very unlikely to receive in Q1 there should be some sequential improvement in your gross margin degradation, correct?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Correct."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay, and then my follow up would be just I've spent quite a bit of time in Vegas this last couple days at Shop Talk and we've been speaking to a lot of folks within micro fulfillment. So Rodney I guess I just want to get your take here again as it relates to relationship with Ocado, can you can help us think about a few items here just why you think this is the right technology going forward, have you spoken to them with respect to their own micro fulfillment option now called Zoom and then maybe does that actually afford you some flexibility with respect to the 20 CFC that you dedicated yourself to with them?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I'm pleased to report that Kroger solidly delivered on our key year one Restock Kroger commitments. When you look at the full year, we delivered against our FIFO operating profit and our Restock cash flow goals which sets us up to reach our 2020 targets. We improved identical sales and delivered EPS near the high end of both our original and adjusted guidance range giving us both business momentum heading into 2019. And I'm especially proud that we achieved an unprecedented cost savings of more than $1 billion through process improvements in 2018."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In terms of first of all somebody on the Ocado team and the Kroger team would actually be talking daily. Now if you look at a broader strategic conversation those would be happening probably on a monthly type basis. The thing -- one of the reasons that we were incredibly excited about partnering with Ocado is Tim and his team continually pushed themselves. And what they have today they'll continue to get better and they will continue to look at different approaches and alternatives. And when we signed the agreement with them one of the comments we made was that we're not signing it based on what you have today, we're signing it based on what we think you're going to have in three to five years because of the talent they have, their drives that keep getting better, and some of the things they have on the drawing board. So I feel very comfortable that if there's a model out there that's more efficient and gives the customer what they want, the partnership with Ocado we will be able to discover that and we will be there when it needs to be there as well."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The next question comes from Scott Mushkin of Wolfe Research."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Hey guys, thanks for letting me ask a question. And then Mike gosh, it's been years so congratulations. I can't believe you're going to be not on the call."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yeah, my 77th one as I said."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yeah, I don't think I've done 77 but I've done a few myself so congratulations."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Some days it feels like you've done more than that Scott."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"So market share, you guys usually ran through market share on the fourth quarter and I was just wondering if you could give us some thoughts on what's happening with the market share during the year and then I wanted to follow up?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yeah, when you think about market share the way it's traditionally calculated our market share did grow in the year as Rodney talked about our tonnage was actually better than what our ID's sales were. And as you invest in price and things like that it can distort the top line but you're moving, you continue to grow tonnage. But it does slightly improve for the year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Market share."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Restock Kroger is fueled by cost savings that we will invest in associates, customers, and infrastructure. We continue to make significant investments to build an omnichannel platform that will deliver customers anything, anytime, anywhere. At the end of 2018, 91% of Kroger households have access to pick up or delivery. By the end of 2019, with full integration of Kroger Ship into our ecosystem, we will reach 100% of America."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Yes."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And when you're talking tonnage when we look at the ID's you're excluding about 50 basis points from specialty pharma contribution, is that correct or no?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Let me understand you, I don\u2019t understand your question exactly."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Oh, I thought you put specialty pharma into the comp, I forget what quarter you did that, was it first quarter of last year\u2026"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"No, we started at the beginning of the year. Yeah on tonnage what we try to do is just look at the absolute number of units that's flowing through our stores. So the toilet paper counters; one, whether it's a one pack or club pack size. But it's just looking at the units that are flowing through our stores is how we try to track it"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Perfect and my follow up question is, I know you guys have been working on alternative revenues for a while so I assume in 2018 numbers is a chunk of that EBIT that's alternative revenues, I was just wondering if you could size how big the year-over-year gain was and how big the alternative revenues are already?"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I think as we as we mentioned a few minutes ago we saw a really nice growth in alternative profits year-over-year, the two biggest areas as you know from the Analyst Meeting, our Media, and Kruger Personal Finance and both of those grew profitability by over 20% joining 2018. As I kind of referred to earlier, we are still really wanting to work through What is the best way to be able to give you the full picture around alternative profit going forward is becoming obviously a bigger and more meaningful part of our business. As Mike mentioned, Mike Schlotman mentioned earlier with the fuel being a headwind in 2019 we expect both, what you traditionally think of as the core business and alternative profits both to be contributing to the improvement in FIFO operating profit in 2019 with the head win that we're facing in fuel. But at this point we're really taking a step back and determining what's the best way to ready share the alternative profit story in a meaningful way. So all of you to make sure that we connect the dots for everybody. And if you remember back at the Investor Conference here in 2018 Stuart Aitken had a slide that showed the slope of the growth of alternative profit. Admittedly it didn't have the dollars on it. But if you take a look at that slide it shows how we expected to continue to build over time and as that momentum starts. You'll see even more growth out in the future."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Alright guys, thank you, thanks very much."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"We have time for one more question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"The next question will come from Gregory Badishkanian of Citi."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE:GS) Q4 2018 Earnings Conference Call January 16, 2019 9:30 AM ET"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Guy Moszkowski - Autonomous Research"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. So let me make one sort of opening comment on expenses generally and these investments. We are very cognizant of where we on the market, volatility in the market and the like. And we will be mindful of the pace of our investment spend and the cadence of it in the context of the market. We know where our priorities lie. And as into the extent the market changes or circumstances change, we know where there are levers to sort of throttle back if, in fact, we need to. So that whole investment cadence, if you will, can remain very agile, and we'll be mindful of it. If you look at '18, we had an increase in overall expenses of about $2.5 billion. About $700 million of that related to compensation, $1.8 billion related to noncomp. Again, in the noncomp, about half of that related to higher provisions for litigation and rev rec, which sort of isolates in on about $892 million of increase in spend relating to investments that we view as driving growth and higher activity in BC&E. All of the investment spend in the different projects that David and I have been talking about, whether that's in Marcus or whether that's corporate cash management or whether that's the building incremental platforms inside the securities and trading business, is in that $892 million. As I said, 2019 will be a continuation of the investment. My view is that the rate of growth in that expense, while it will grow, the rate of growth will be less than the rate of growth that we saw in '18, and we're going to continue to look to deploy existing operating leverage in the business as a source of that investment spend in the business overall."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from the line of Christian Bolu with Bernstein."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Chinedu Bolu"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"David, maybe just stepping back a little bit here. Curious what you think will drive superior long-term shareholder returns. I think over the last two years, the firm has actually executed pretty well. You delivered better than peer revenue growth, better than peer core ROEs. Despite that and put into their side, the stock has underperformed even before the 1MDB issues. So what changes going forward? Is there some reason you think the market will finally start to give the stock credit for revenue growth at ROE? Or are there just other metrics you should be focused on to drive shareholder returns?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Solomon"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure, and I appreciate the question. Obviously, we're cognizant of the way the market is looking at our business mix, and we're also cognizant of the performance of the stock. It's very hard for me to predict, and I won't try to predict when the market will recognize our returns and our progress, but it's our job to stay focused on delivering those returns for shareholders. And over time, if we do, I'm confident that we'll be balanced in an appropriate way. We've been very focused for a number of years on diversifying the platform and moving forward. I do want to say, just to put in context and to highlight maybe in a different way, some of the progress we've made. And many of you obviously have been following the company for a long time."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"If 3 to 5 years ago, we said on one of these calls that in 2018, we would have a year where our FICC ICS revenues were less than $6 billion, we were making significant investments in building out a digital consumer platform and we happened to be in a situation where we had [indiscernible] litigation expense that we would deliver $36.6 billion of revenues and a 13.3% return, people would have said, not possible. And the reason that that's happened is we have been working for a number of years to broaden our business, expand our addressable wallet and, at the same point in time, increase the durability of our revenues. And you can see from the slide that we put up at the beginning that over the last x number of years, 5 years, we've moved from less than 50% more fee-based recurring revenues to over 60% today. We continue to be committed to that. And as we're developing a plan to move forward, we see things we can do in the existing businesses and adjacent build, some of which we mentioned, where we feel very confidently that we can continue to push returns higher, especially if we also continue to be focused on running the firm more efficiently, which as Stephen stated, we're very committed to doing."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So I think we're in a position where we have opportunities to continue on this path that we've been on. I think one of the things candidly that we need to continue to do better, and I hope you see through this call we are committed to doing, is we need to do a better job giving you information and explaining what we are, what we do, how we do it. I think we're making progress. But I think candidly, we have work to do, and we're going to continue to remain focused on that. And we hope over time, if our focus on expanding the business and diversifying the business while staying true and excellent in the things that have always been core to the business while communicating better, ultimately, the market will follow. And so that's what we're going to stick to and do."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Chinedu Bolu"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Matthew O'Connor - Deutsche Bank"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I appreciate the candor, and what I sense is a sense of urgency in your voice. On FICC, you talked about optimizing the business. So just help us level set here kind of what are the margins or ROEs in the business today. What can you exactly do to help that business get to an ROE that's closer to the firm-wide ROE? And then on FICC top line, I guess if increasing electronic volumes and improving wallet share aren't driving material revenue growth or material revenue share growth, what do you think will actually drive revenue share growth going forward?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Solomon"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Okay. So I'm going to start, Christian, by making a couple of comments, and then Stephen will go into, I think, a little bit more detail on some of the specifics that you mentioned. But I just want to start by saying that I really like our FICC business. It's a really big, important business. But we're not confused by the fact that the available wallet in market intermediation for large institutions has materially declined over the course of the last five years. One of the things that's been interesting for me over the last two years once I became president and I started spending more time with the broader diverse array of our clients, I'd always go out for the last decade, more than a decade, and see Investment Banking clients. And they always told me how extraordinary they thought are people were, the way our teams work together, the way the executed. As I've had an opportunity over the last two years to go out and spend a lot of time with Securities division clients and with clients of Fixed Income, they say exactly the same thing. Your people are really differentiated. Your risk takers and the capability is really differentiated."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Your execution is really differentiated. We have a very, very strong client franchise business, but's it's in a business where there's been fundamental change and wallet change. I would highlight that if you go back and look at our wallet market shares before the financial crisis in 2005, '06 and '07, our wallet shares were in the 8%, 8.5% range. And if you look at our wallet shares today, our wallet shares are around 12%. And so there was an aberration during the 2009 kind of period where the wallet shares peaked, but we've continued to build this franchise, and we're laser focused on building it. The one thing that I said in my comments that I just want to reiterate is we accept the size of the wallet share that exists, and it's our job to run the business well based on that wallet share to allocate capital over time efficiently and to run that business in an effective way from a cost perspective, and we continue to do that while continuing to invest in the client franchise. And so Stephen, I think, will make some comments to add on some of the more specific detailed parts of the question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Christian, so just to pivot off of David's comments. I mean, I think the objective here is to identify the appropriate TAM. I mean, what's the addressable market that we're playing for? And you are absolutely right to point out that our increased market share, and David was referring to it, among institutional clients has not, in the last couple of years, demonstrated revenue conversion. And so part of that is moving us in a direction to expand our corporate coverage and corporate touch point as it relates to the FICC, and that's using channels that exist and relationships that exist in Investment Banking. And as I mentioned in my prepared remarks, we've seen modest improvement in that, particularly in commodities and foreign exchange. And it's against that addressable market that we're going to take and are taking in part of -- as part of the front to back of U.S. to the proper expense size against that wallet and against that TAM, the amount of debt and liquidity we need to put against that business, the amount of risk that we need to take on in the context of intermediating risk for clients and then, ultimately, the amount of capital to put against it. This is not something that David and I have just woken up to."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"In fact, if you look at over the last several years, 3 to 5 years, there has been a lot of work on going inside the business to reduce expenses by about 30% in that period, reduce RWAs by about 40% in that period. And most importantly, an active and engaged move to reallocate capital around the firm, moving it away from a smaller business in FICC and putting it against Investment Banking or other businesses around the firm. And so while we have not sort of put as much headline to a lot of that activity as perhaps some of the other institutions, this is an evolutionary process that we've begun. It now has a greater sense of urgency and purpose in the context in which David described it, and I think we have a clear view, along with those running the business, about how to get to the right place and the right size of input allocation to the business itself."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous Research."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Guy Moszkowski"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Michael Carrier - Bank of America Merrill Lynch"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"First of all, before I ask my question, I just want to say I think it really does serve shareholders very well that you're doing this new, more fulsome strategic review and outlook. So I just want to thank you, I guess, on behalf of everybody for that. It's very useful to see."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Solomon"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thank you, Guy. I appreciate that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks for the feedback."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Guy Moszkowski"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes, no worries. So I just want to follow up on Christian's questions on FICC. I was hoping maybe you could quantify for us the capital reallocation and the expense reallocation that you alluded to both in your prepared remarks and also in answering his question."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Yes. I mean, I think the quantification that I can give you is really sort of part of what I was responding to in terms of Christian's question, which is in the last five years, as I said, we've taken expense down 30%, RWAs by 40% and reallocation of capital. I think my hope and my expectation is that David and I will be back to you over the course of the next several months with a very clear indication about the specific allocation of resources. And I'm not hesitating other than part of the front-to-back review that we are engaged in right now is to answer the very question you're asking, which is, again, understand the addressable market, including an expanded set of customers and clients that we will focus on and then being quite clear about what our taking that market can be and then the inputs to driving that business, whether it's expenses, liquidity, capital and otherwise. And my expectation is we'll be back to you with a clear view as to how that will take lift over time."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Guy Moszkowski"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Betsy Graseck - Morgan Stanley"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Okay. That's helpful. And obviously, we'll be looking for that. Follow-up question is in a different direction and just follows up on the comments that you made about the 1MDB situation and the litigation reserve bill that you quantified. The -- I guess my question would be, can you give us a sense at this point as to about how much bigger your reasonable -- reasonably possible loss or RPL will be that we'll see in the 10-K?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sure. So again, just to sort of be clear with folks as to what we said. So the fourth quarter litigation expense was $516 million. For the full year, we took litigation expense of $844 million. And as we sit here now, and so my comment on the RPL, which will obviously be disclosed in the K, now is premised only on what we know now and nothing more, so that could change. But based on what we know now, the RPL will be in the neighborhood of about $2 billion, independent of the reserves that I otherwise listed off for you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Matthew O'Connor"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"I was wondering if you could talk a bit more about how you're thinking about the optimization of capital. Should we expect it to be kind of moving from one area to another area of the firm? Or are you hoping to maybe free up some more capital for shareholder buybacks and dividends and things like that?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So I would say that there's a couple of variables in terms of the deployment of capital as a general matter. First, we obviously look at opportunities to deploy capital in accretive opportunities around growth initiatives, and so we'll continue to do that. And that is, in effect, redeploying capital from businesses that show less promise in terms of their overall return to those opportunities, both existing and new growth businesses, that show higher promise. Secondly, and I don't have to tell you, that there are limitations obviously to what we can do in terms of share buyback by virtue of CCAR, and we will continue to be as prudently aggressive as we can be in terms of the return of capital within the confines of CCAR. And obviously, we have yet to receive the scenario planning for this year, but that will factor in as best we can. And so I think that's the way to think about the deployment of capital, generally speaking. One, being an internal reallocation based on growth. But second, and in the growth sense, we want to invest in areas which will carry accretive returns for our shareholders and that can grow. And so our ambition and our MO will be just around that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Matthew O'Connor"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Brennan Hawken - UBS Investment Bank"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And then maybe a question for David on the capital theme still. You're clearly reviewing the businesses. You're looking to make the revenues more annuity-like than they've been. Is there something that you think you can accomplish organically? Or do you think it -- maybe it'll be supplemented by deals? And obviously, within deals, you've done some small bolt-on ones. But there does continue to be some questions, I think, among investors and analysts about the need for a bigger deal to help balance out the business. So maybe if you can just comment on your thoughts on that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Solomon"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. So look, as you would expect us do, we'll look at all options to grow the franchise both organic or inorganic. We're extremely focused on the organic opportunities, and we actually think the plan we're developing, which is an organic plan, can drive to meaningfully higher returns over time. And the preference would always be to drive organic progress in the business. I've said to many of you in meetings I've had in with you individually, and I'd say it here, we'll look at inorganic opportunities. I think you'll continue to see a few smaller add-on opportunities across our businesses, particularly when you look at asset management and wealth management. But the bar for doing significant inorganic move is extremely high. And as someone who's been around M&A for a significant portion of my career, I know the bar to do that should be extremely high. But it's our job as a management team to be well-versed on any opportunity that we think can advance our returns and our cost for shareholders, and we'll operate that way as we move forward."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with the Wells Fargo Securities."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Michael Mayo"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"If I can try a 1MDB question. So how much of this is related to the U.S., like were the securities -- were any of the securities -- U.S. securities or any of the buyers in the U.S. or any of the transaction structure in the U.S.? And the reason I ask is to help determine whether or not the Securities Exchange Act of 1933 or 1934 apply?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Mike, thanks for the question. These securities were all reg S securities sold to non-U.S. buyers. And we're not structured in the U.S. nor under Reg S. We're destined to be sold to U.S. buyers."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Michael Mayo"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Steven Chubak - Wolfe Research"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"All right. That's helpful. And then a more general question. 1MDB certainly is in the news. There's been many articles talking about the morale of employees and the potential impact on customers. What is the spillover effect of 1MDB on customers, employees, business or any other way other than what's happening in the legal and regulatory realm?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Solomon"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure, and I appreciate the question. Obviously, we think about this, and we monitor it carefully. First, I'll talk about employees first, and I think morale and the firm for employees is high. Employees feel good about the performance of the firm. They do not like the fact that we're dealing with the situation in 1MDB. And certainly, I think people here are extremely angry and upset about the fact that we had a partner of the firm involved in such a significant fraud. And as I said in my remarks, that's something that we have enormous regret about. But the business has performed well. I think people recognize that this is something that we're going through a deliberative process of resolving. But people feel good about the firm, our client franchise, the work they're doing with our clients and the way the firm's positioned. In terms of our clients, we obviously are extremely engaged with our clients and are talking to our clients on a regular basis, and I would say the impact on our client franchise at this point across the globe has been de minimis. I'm not, in any way, shape or form, not aware of all the noise in the press and all the articles. And I read them, I watch them as you do. And I, for a moment, would not say that the impact of this is a reputational dent to the firm that we have to and we'll work through. But that said, as we deal with clients and we stay focused on our clients, we're executing for them. And I think you also have to be cognizant of the fact that a lot of what gets in the press and where it comes from has motivations in the context of the resolution of what's a difficult process."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Betsy Graseck"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Question on the cash management business that you talked about at the beginning of the call, David. I just want to understand how much the investment is going into the technology side and how you're investing in the plant and equipment in terms of the banking licenses globally that you need in order to have this type of offering. Or do you partner with local banks? And then I have a follow-up just related to that and how you're thinking about the loan growth."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Sure, Betsy. It's Stephen. I'll take that. So in the context of corporate cash management, you'll remember that our interest in this was in part a view that when we look at sort of the most significant relationships that we had in Investment Banking across those corporates that they were paying a considerable amount to the market, almost equal to that, that they pay in the market in which we participate, namely our Advisory and Underwriting business, but they were paying in and around Treasury services and corporate cash management. And given that this had historically been kind of the problems of lending banks, the fact that we have picked up our lending and credit into these, sort of gave us an entry point for this conversation. I'd also say that what we perceived was a pain point among corporate treasuries that the technology and the platforms they were working with were underwhelming. And what's more, if you look at what banks have been paying on operational deposits, it's been de minimis. And so from our perspective, this is something where with a clean sheet of paper, we can build the technology, we can design it, edge your way to address those pain points."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And candidly, from a competitive point of view, the operational deposits are quite attractive to us even if we pay rates well above that, which are being paid by other banks just in the context of substitution for wholesale funding. When you look at the technology that we're building, I would say that there's a certain element of it which is synergistic with other technology builds that we have been undertaking, including Marcus and including what we've been building and strengthening the legal equity of GS Bank US. So for example, the development of the payments hub, which is obviously central not just to what we do in the context of Marcus, but equally what we would do in terms of corporate cash management. This business has developed over the last 5 or 10 years in terms of the ability to make use of many, many vendors to build this in the cloud, to integrate those vendors in a way that would have required organic build inside the organization, in a way that's not necessary now. I think as we build this and as we grow this, we're going to be selective. And we won't be all things to all people out of the box. We will select certain currencies among the major currencies where we will play. There are interesting vendor solutions that can take you to secondary and tertiary markets, where you don't necessarily need to build correspondent banking relationships on as proliferated a basis as you had 2 years ago. And so we intend to do that, that way. And so I think the technology is at hand. It's the right time to be doing this, and I think we can execute this. I'd also point out, just as an aside, that the first customer of this platform, in fact, will be Goldman Sachs such that we can reduce the cost of our own operational deposits outside of the bank, and I think in the process, de-risk the firm from that perspective."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"James Mitchell - The Buckingham Research Group"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Betsy Graseck"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"And when you think about how you get paid for this business, I mean, historically, in the industry, part of it has come from lending. So I just wanted to confirm if that's part of how you're expecting to get paid, but also how you think about the capital allocation to the loan book, not only in corporate, but in consumer. Awhile back, there was some commentary that maybe Marcus loan growth would be slowing. So if you can touch on that and also how you think about the balance sheet utilization towards loans versus towards buybacks."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. So I just want to be clear. When we look at the P&L prospect and we model out what returns we can get, return on lending is not part of what we look at in the context of corporate cash management. I'll come back to your lending question. But in the context of corporate cash management, there are basically 3 components, okay? One, and the most significant, are operational deposits. They are useful to us. They're probably more useful as a substitute for wholesale funding. The second, which ties back to an adjacency into our securities business, is the captive FX that plays out in the context of corporate cash management more generally. And then the third, which candidly is probably the smallest of the three, is fee-for-service."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"When I was referring to lending, what I was pointing out was that for a long, long time, this was a business that was sort of exclusively in the province of lending institutions to corporates. Over time, we have grown our corporate lending book for reasons obviously unrelated to corporate cash management because it wasn't in the plan years ago but as part of what we've been doing strategically and growing and developing in terms of a broader set of products and relationships with corporates. That has been ongoing. That will continue to go on. It will go on with all of the attending risk issues and the like. But the P&L, if you will, that's generated from that lending, is not a motivating factor. It's just me pointing out to you that it had been, in effect, a gating item in a way in which corporate cash management had been thought about. And so we are a lender and a more prolific lender in that regard, and therefore, think we have more sort of access and right and title to sort of play and compete for this business."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Brennan Hawken"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Curious on Marcus deposits. We've heard here in the last few days a few banks commenting on the likelihood that we could see retail deposit costs increasing even if we don't see any short-term rate increases. If that plays out in 2019, could you maybe let us know how you would think about keeping your position competitively in the market at the upper end of that bound as far as payout goes, how you would adjust? Just how should we think about that as far the market deposits go?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Devin Ryan - JMP Securities"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Sure. So I think if you look historically from the time that we acquired the GE deposit platform in the U.S., I would say that the beta was lower than where it's going, meaning it'll remain lower than one, but in the rate environment in which we were in, it was very little by way of movement and rate. There's been more acceleration of rate in the context of where interest rates have been moving. Our objective in the U.S. has always have been -- has always been to be in the top kind of 2, 3 or 4 in the sort of tables as rate paid. And I would point out that while we're not particularly motivated to pay more than we need to, the draw on these deposits is obviously rate dependent. And even at levels well beyond that which we're currently paying, these remain very accretive sort of funding to the firm relative to where we fund on a like-for-like duration in the wholesale market. And I think the diversification overall that's brought to us by these retail deposits is positive. And so that's kind of the story on rate. In the U.K., I would say that we opened up to be perfectly candid with much more demand than we had anticipated, and I think that'll give us an ability to moderate sort of the acceleration of rate in that. And I think we were the beneficiaries of sort of hitting a nerve in the U.K. market where we were paying more than the high street banks, and deposits came our way. But the influx of that, I think, will give us more maneuverability on the rate side."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Brennan Hawken"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Terrific. I appreciate that. And then for my second question, while we've seen spreads net back and the loan market recover here, CLOs and levered loans became a big topic in the fourth quarter. So could you maybe let us know how you manage the risks of the warehouse? How much of your warehouse is funded with third-party equity? And if it is fully funded with third party, how you manage counterparty risk to those providers?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. So that can go in a number of ways. I'll start by saying that our CLO exposure is small. It's in the neighborhood of about $2 billion, about half of that is funded. If you look more broadly at our risk exposure in terms of leverage lending and the like, it remained small on relative terms. If you look at our underwriting book, our underwriting book skews heavily toward investment grade. And if you look at LBO risk, it's single digit in terms of where it sits and appreciably lower than where it was certainly if you go back to the financial crisis itself. And so we feel very good about our risk. I would say that we come into '19. And as I and others from a risk perspective look at the book, we feel comfortable at the flex that we have in our underwriting commitments. We are pleased at sort of the underwriting concessions. We're seeing flow of funds back into bond funds and loan funds, took a turn into January relative to the outflows that we saw in December. We're seeing investment-grade deals move. We're seeing caps in the term. So all of the, if you will, indicators on the dashboard are playing more favorably than what we've seen in the past, and I think we're very, very comfortable in terms of where we are in overall risk."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from the line of Steven Chubak with Wolfe Research."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Steven Chubak"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So I wanted to start off with a question on some of the efficiency commentary. And I have to say I was quite encouraged by the remarks really from both of you, Stephen and David, on focused driving efficiency, the higher accountability from the individual teams. And one of the interesting things that's been a big focus from investors is when we benchmark your efficiency ratio against the peers and really focusing in on the businesses that are comparable. The efficiency ratio range for the peers sets about 55% to 70%. It looks like you shook out somewhere closer to 64%, so already closer to that midpoint. And I'm just wondering how -- whether you can give us some insight to how you're thinking about long-term efficiency goals, really how you're benchmarking yourself across the peers as you continue to drive that focus on efficiency across the individual teams."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Gerard Cassidy - RBC Capital Markets"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Sure. So thanks for the question and for the comment. I mean, our view on efficiency ratio and the migration there is that we need to look across all expenses, particularly as we're building out sort of more platform-driven businesses, which will be less compensation, if you will, expense intensive and more operationally intensive. And obviously, the marginal margin as you build scale around those will increase, and so hence, our turn in that direction. I would point out that if you look at the efficiency ratio, we report a number which is flat year-on-year, again notwithstanding growth and expense of 12%. But equally, litigation reserves in that number took that number in a direction where it would have been about 230 basis points lower in terms of the efficiency ratio than where we reported it. I'm not suggesting that what we reported is anything but correct, but just to give you a sense of the migration. It's hard to know right now and to give you a sense of what the forward target would be. I think over time, you should expect us based on the revenue -- the durable revenue that David was talking about and recurring revenue on the basis of platform that we will extract greater efficiency in the business as the business skews in that direction and as we run through this front to back. And in the coming months as we meet and sit with more of you, my hope is that we can guide you, directionally speaking, to where this will go. But the downward trend is one that we hope to continue to realize."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Steven Chubak"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Stephen, those insights are quite helpful. Just one follow-up as it relates to some of your comments on the marginal margin improving, and I know it was a little more than a year ago when you initially laid out those growth targets on the revenue side of $5 billion. You had talked about a marginal margin of 50%. Clearly, that's required some frontloading of investment. But I'm wondering with about half of the incremental revenue growth still ahead of us, how we should think about that incremental margin on the next $2.5 billion of revenue growth that [Technical Difficulty]."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"[Technical Difficulty] example of that is in any lending business, when you are in a growth mode, you continue to have reserve build right to the point at which you are at a comfortable, steady state. And from there, you start to see the margin increase. And so I think that each of these businesses, whether it's corporate cash management or Marcus, are all in their early stages. They haven't yet hit their stride, notwithstanding our expectation that they'll hit the targets we set for them in 2020. Those targets were, by no means, a limit of where we think we can take the firm in terms of the overall growth trajectory generally. I would also say that the commentary on efficiency and higher marginal margin should not be limited exclusively to kind of the growth initiatives themselves. So look at FICC, for example. FICC over time, and David was talking about this, there's an element of platform electronification as a means of which you can drive higher volumes in a narrowing a bid-offer spread. And I think even there, as we progress the initiative to build out those platforms, we'll realize greater margin. Again, that's an incumbent business. So the commentary is not limited to those on the growth side."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"James Mitchell"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Maybe a strategy question in retail. I always think of Goldman's core competency is creating wealth management, and you kind of led with retail banking. And just -- I appreciate the comments on starting to build out a digital wealth. Have you thought -- or is it in your plans to think about also building out more of a complete brokerage platform as well to kind of leverage your gain throughput through your institutional platform?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Solomon"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"So as we talked about, as we think about Marcus and we think about Marcus as it started with one plan -- with one product. Our plan has always been to build a platform, and that platform would be digital, and it would be a storefront over which we could distribute multiple products, some products that we originate and come off our platform, some products maybe that we distribute for others. There's always been a focus on the fact that we have a massive wealth management business at the very, very high end. And we've always shied away from broadening that footprint or making it more retail, for another lack of term, because the only way you could do that previously was to basically own a big brokerage. And there were a lot of reasons why we didn't think, for us, that owning a big brokerage was something that we wanted to do as we thought strategically going forward about where the firm would go. But now with a digital platform, we have opportunities to acquire clients and feed clients into our platform on a much more effective cost of customer acquisition basis. And so our vision is to continue to build out that platform and add more products and more connectivity into our wealth management business over time."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from the line of Devin Ryan with JMP Securities."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Devin Ryan"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Great. I guess, first question here, you gave a little bit of a preview, so I'm just going to ask another one on the front-to-back review. I think it's largely been viewed as kind of a net cost-cutting capital reduction exercise. But on the other side of that, do you have any early reads on what specific existing businesses look like they might deserve more investment or more capital than maybe you previously realized? And just so that we know, is this going to come with first quarter results? Or when should we expect this?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Solomon"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. So first, obviously when you want a front to back and you look at your businesses, there's an element of cost-cutting and capital allocation. But the real purpose of looking at businesses front to back, the starting fundamental purpose is to understand your addressable market and the opportunity set and then with your resources to figure out the most effective way to deliver on it. So I want to be very, very clear. As any new management team would do in any large company, as they start down the path of evolving a strategy, you really want to look at the opportunity you have in businesses and then your ability to deliver on those opportunities. And so at a high level, the purpose of the front to back was both opportunity and then also efficiency, as you highlight. Stephen has a couple of other comments just with respect to kind of the detail."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Well, I would just point out, I think that this is going to cascade down in the organization, meaning our ambition is to put more of the costs in the direct control of the businesses so that they are owning the front to back. In effect, they ought to own their pretax line, meaning they're owning both their revenue line and the cost base. Now I should point out that we will keep certain functions in at the core, as you would expect us do from a control and risk point of view. So there'll be elements of ops and elements of tech that are held at the core. And needless to say, second and third line of control remain at the core. But we're looking to sort of put costs into the control hand of the business and driving businesses to a greater efficiency proposition in terms of how they conduct themselves."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Company Participants"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Good morning. My name is Dennis, and I will be your conference facilitator today. I would like to welcome everyone to the Goldman Sachs Fourth Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. This call is being recorded today, January 16, 2019. Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question comes from the line of Gerard Cassidy with RBC."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Gerard Cassidy"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Can you guys share with us -- and I apologize if you have addressed this. But what impact do you think the MiFID changes has had on your equity business? Obviously, you had good numbers this quarter, year-over-year growth as did some of the large -- your large competitors. Can you give us some color? We're 12 months into it, what have you guys seen from the changes with MiFID II?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. So what we have seen from MiFID II is really market share consolidation, and it's played out at one level by geography and then another level in terms of individual firms. So we've seen more share consolidate, and that consolidated share move out of certain of the European banks and into the U.S. banks in terms of share of equities. And then within that, it's become kind of a tight game of which, needless to say, we are a major player. And so our expectation is that we're going to continue to see that consolidation. My hope is that we continue to benefit from that share consolidation. And I think we do so in part because we've developed over many years, and we'll continue, research platforms and high-value content that we can play out. And the share comes back to us in -- as a consequence."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"At this time, there are no further questions. Please continue with any closing remarks."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Okay. Since there are no more questions, we would like to take a moment to thank everybody for joining the call. On behalf of our senior management team, we hope to see many of you in the coming months. If any additional questions arise in the meantime, please don't hesitate to reach out to Heather. Otherwise, enjoy the rest of your day, and we look forward to speaking with you on our first quarter call in April. Thank you."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Ms. Miner, you may begin your conference."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude the Goldman Sachs Fourth Quarter 2018 Earnings Conference Call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Heather Miner"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Good morning. This is Heather Miner, Head of Investor Relations at Goldman Sachs. Welcome to our fourth quarter earnings conference call. Today, we will use a new earnings presentation, which can be found on the Investor Relations page of our website at www.gs.com. No information on forward-looking statements and non-GAAP measures appear on the earnings release and presentation. [Technical Difficulty] reproduced or rebroadcast without our consent."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Today on the call, I am joined by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, David Solomon; and our Chief Financial Officer, Stephen Scherr. As noted on the agenda on Page 1 of the presentation, David will provide introductory remarks about our strategic priorities, perspectives on the macro environment and an update on 1MDB. Then Stephen will walk through our financial performance. They'll be happy to take your questions after that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"I'll now pass the call over to David. David?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Solomon"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Thanks, Heather, and thanks to everyone for joining us this morning. I'm very happy to be here with you, and I look forward to joining this call in a more regular basis. I'm going to start off this morning by reiterating that I'm fully committed to an active and ongoing dialogue with our shareholders and our broader stakeholders. I'm excited about our new call format and presentation, which is an initial step as we continue to enhance engagement and disclosure."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"As shown on Page 2, it is important to underscore that our overarching priority is to execute our core mission: Serving our diverse client franchise, which includes corporations and governments, institutions and individuals; executing on our client-centric model will drive long-term sustainable value creation for our shareholders. We remain committed to delivering a full range of services to our clients, including advice, market liquidity, investment management and financing. As many of you know, John, Stephen and I are conducting a comprehensive front-to-back review across each of our businesses, including 3-year forward plans to identify opportunities to strengthen or expand our client footprint and to operate more efficiently. We are also pursuing new ways to deepen our existing relationships and expand our client footprint by developing new products and business platforms."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"As our strategic business reviews are progressing, let me highlight some early findings, which are shown on the right side of Page 2. Starting with our market-making business in FICC and Equities, we've spent a significant amount of time, evaluating all aspects of our businesses, including our delivery model, with a focus on providing best-in-class client experience and execution. To achieve this, we will continue to invest in automation and platform enhancements. We are also actively engaged in pursuing opportunities to grow our addressable market by broadening client relationships and improving our mix of products, services, particularly the corporates."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Heather Miner - Head, IR"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Specifically as it relates to FICC, we have a leading institutional market-making franchise. Clients tell me we have differentiated people and capabilities, particularly in the intermediation of large complex risks. But let me be direct. We're fully cognizant of the reduction in the industry wallet over the past decade. And as Stephen mentioned at the Bank of America Merrill Conference, we will not be complacent waiting for the market to return. We are running the business with a clear perspective of its revenue potential."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Over recent years, we've made significant progress on improving capital utilization and reallocating capital away from FICC commensurate with its potential in order to grow strategically, important and higher returning businesses. We will continue to optimize capital in the business. We also see an opportunity to further reduce expenses. We're investing in automation as we expect many businesses within FICC to evolve similarly to equities. All these efforts will position our franchise to remain a provider of choice while improving returns for our shareholders."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Secondly, we have a world-class alternatives investing franchise, which has generated strong returns over 3 decades. We have one of the most unique sourcing platforms given our global footprint of broad network. Our franchise presents us with extraordinary opportunities to partner with clients to invest their capital alongside our own. Based on our track record, there is an opportunity to raise additional third-party funds across equity, credit and real estate, thereby augmenting fee income. Simultaneously, we can continue to monetize on-balance sheet investments and optimize capital consumption."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Next, on cash management. As we evaluated opportunities to improve services to our clients and expand our franchise, cash management presents an illogical area for us given the breadth of our corporate relationships and the size of that wallet. In addition, the pace of technological change in the payment space gives us confidence that it is appropriate time for us to address this opportunity. We are now 6 months into a 2-year build, and our firm will be first to use a cash management platform later in 2019. In addition to validating the product, doing our own operational payment flows will reduce costs and operational risk. Among all -- assuming all progresses as planned, we expect to launch the product to clients in 2020."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Lastly, as we bring markets and the business of Investment Management closer, we will continue to evolve markets from a single product to a multiproduct platform. We now serve 3 million customers through our lending and savings products in Clarity Money. We plan to further enhance the platform to include multitiered mass affluent digital wealth offering, which is currently in development. We are confident this collaboration will be a catalyst for the successful execution of this strategy over time."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Across these and other investments for growth, combined with a significant focus on operating efficiency, we are beginning to deliver on our commitment to enhance the durability of our revenues and our earnings. We continue to review our strategic priorities with our board and plan to communicate a more comprehensive update to the market in the coming months. Additionally, later this year, we plan to share specific metrics and financial targets we will use to hold ourselves accountable. Ultimately, we will operate the firm to drive leading shareholder returns over the cycle."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Before we discuss our results, I'll make a few observations on the operating environment. Some of which are highlighted on Page 3. Recently, there has been quite a disconnect between the weak market sentiment and the optimism we continue to see in corporate board rooms. The fourth quarter, particularly December, was characterized by a decline in investor sentiment with respect to the global growth outlook. A concern that central banks would continue to tighten into a slowing growth environment cause weakness in equity and credit markets and resulted in an increase in volatility of many macro assets. While this has created challenges for many of our institutional investing clients, it is also driving potential future opportunities for active managers to add value."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In addition for now the absolute level of activity in the real economy remains fairly robust, and this is reflected in broad CEO sentiment and our Investment Banking transaction backlog. Despite the global uncertainties, including U.S. China trade policy, Brexit, the planned removal of monetary policy stimulus in Europe and the recent yield curve flattening, our economy still see global growth of 3.5% next year, including 2.4% in the U.S., 1.6% in the Euro zone, over 6% in China and an acceleration to 2% in Latin America. Notwithstanding the mixed market and macro backdrop, we remain actively engaged with our clients across our franchise. Corporations continue to seek advice for strategic transactions, and there is a need for both equity and debt financing. Financial markets are open, and investors continue to need execution services, intellectual capital, hedging and liquidity solutions. Clients continue to need comprehensive asset wealth management advice, and individuals need simple and transparent financial services that add value."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Next, I'd like to take a moment to address the ongoing investigations related to matters with the Malaysian sovereign development fund, 1MDB. I want to proactively address some of your questions that I know are on the minds of our stakeholders."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"First, we are cooperating with the Department of Justice and other regulators and are focused on a timely but deliberative process. We believe that we have established important facts in our own review of this matter over the last 3 years, and we, of course, would like to provide more information to you. But for now, this is still an open investigation, and we will naturally respect that process."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Solomon - Chairman & CEO"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"It's very clear that the people of Malaysia were defrauded by many individuals, including the highest members of the prior government. Tim Leissner was a partner at our firm, by his own admission, was one of those people. For Leissner's role in that fraud, we apologize to the Malaysian people. As you would expect, we have looked back and continue to look back to see if there is anything that we as a firm could have done better. At the same time, I want you to know before each transaction considerable due diligence was conducted. When control functions in other -- in the firm asked if each transaction whether any intermediaries were involved, they were told no. Tim Leissner himself said no intermediaries were involved in the transaction. As detailed in the government's charging documents, Leissner purposely concealed from the firm his scheme with Malaysian government officials, IPIC officials, 1MDB and Jho Low."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Significantly, and again as a part of our due diligence efforts at the time, we sought and received written assurances from both 1MDB and IPIC that no intermediaries were involved in the first 2 transactions. And in the final offering, the government of Malaysia itself and 1MDB represented that no intermediaries were involved in the offering. All these representations to Goldman Sachs have proven to be false. Also during this period, 1MDB's outside auditors with access to the books and records issued clean audit opinions."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In addition, I want to address the issue of Jho Low and how he was viewed during and after the transactions. We declined Jho Low's request to open a private wealth account in 2010 because we could not verify the source of his wealth. Out of prudence, we also declined to advise or represent Low on other opportunities he presented to us between 2011 and 2014. That said, during the same period of time, Jho Low's involvement in a number of transactions unrelated to 1MDB was well known to a number of financial institutions, including us."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In fact, before, during and after the 1MDB transactions, Low engaged with major companies, investors and other financial institutions in acquiring highly visible assets, from media to real estate. Clearly, a lot more is known about Jho Low today and at that time. This has been a difficult time, but I'm proud of how our firm has remained focused on our clients. Our client franchise, including in Asia, remains extremely strong. There are always important lessons to be learned from difficult situations, and it is a priority for me that we are self-critical and reflective to ensure that our culture of integrity, collaboration and escalation only improves from this experience. Please appreciate that I've tried to be as forthcoming as possible on my comments on 1MDB. I know that many of you will have additional questions, but I'm sure as you can understand, I can't say much more."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"With that, let's switch gears and review our performance as highlighted on Page 4. For 2018 full year, the firm reported solid results. We generated firm-wide net revenues of $36.6 billion, our highest in 8 years. We delivered a return on equity of 13.3% and return on tangible equity of 14.1%. Importantly, we are making significant investments to further expand our client franchise, grow revenues and enhance the long-term earnings profile of the firm, the cost of which is being funded by the embedded operating leverage in our businesses."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"In summary, I'm extremely pleased with our performance. We delivered a solid year, and our 2018 results leave us on strong footing to pursue our strategic objectives in 2019 and beyond. The team I have assembled to execute on our priorities, including John and Stephen, have an increased sense of urgency and discipline to help move our business forward."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"With that, I'll turn the call over to Stephen, who will walk us through the details of our financial performance. Stephen?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Thanks, David. Let me begin with an overview of our financial results on Page 5 of the presentation. The firm reported fourth quarter net revenues of $8.1 billion, resulting in $36.6 billion for the full year. We had net earnings of $2.5 billion in the quarter and $10.5 billion for the full year and earnings per share of $6.04 in the quarter, resulting in $25.27 for the full year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Before I begin the detailed discussion of our results, I want to cover a few adjustments to our financials. First, to increase transparency and make our results more consistent with our competitive set, we now present our net revenues before credit provision. We have added a credit provision line to the income statement, and prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation. This has no impact on our bottom line results, but will give a basis for clear comparison."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr - CFO & EVP"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Second, expenses related to consultants and temporary staff previously reported in compensation and benefits expenses are now reported in professional fees. This also has had no impact on the bottom line, but does result in $280 million being transferred between the line items for the full year. This change also reduced headcount by approximately 3,400."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"In addition to the changes in the presentation of our financial statements, I would call out the following 2 items. First, our fourth quarter results included net provisions for litigation and regulatory matters of $516 million. Our total provisions for litigation and regulatory matters in 2018 amounted to $844 million. This obviously elevated our operating expense line for the year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Second, our tax rate for 2018 was 16%. This rate includes a $487 million discrete benefit from a true-up of our prior estimate of the impact from 2017's tax legislation. The benefit reflects the impact of updated information, including subsequent guidance issued by Treasury. The 16% rate also includes the $269 million benefit related to equity-based compensation for the year. These 2 items, the tax true-up and equity-based compensation, account for approximately 6 percentage points of the decrease in our tax rate from our projected normalized rate of approximately 22% to 23%. It is important to highlight that pretax earnings increased $1.3 billion or 12% in 2018. This equates to an increase of approximately 130 basis points in return on common equity after normalizing for taxes year-over-year. This improvement in our operating performance was despite materially higher litigation expenses."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Now let me turn to the results overall. As David mentioned, the environment in 2018 turned out to be mixed. The first 3 quarters demonstrated continued strength in global equity and credit markets despite geopolitical uncertainty. The fourth quarter witnessed higher levels of market volatility, increased client engagement and negative performance across virtually all asset classes. Against this evolving backdrop, we concentrated on serving our clients and investing to drive our business forward."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our overall performance in 2018 demonstrates the value of our diversified business model and the strength of our client franchise. This is reflected in the balanced revenue contribution from across our businesses as shown on the pie chart on Page 5 of the presentation. Further, 61% of 2018 net revenues were generated by fee-based or more recurring sources versus 48% just 5 years ago."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning to Page 6 and our individual segments. Investment Banking had an outstanding performance in 2018, producing near-record results. In the fourth quarter, the business produced net revenues of $2 billion, up 3% versus the third quarter as a significant pickup in M&A completions helped offset a decline in underwriting revenues as the difficult market backdrop slowed issuance volumes globally. Advisory revenues were $1.2 billion, up 31% relative to the third quarter, reflecting growth in completed M&A transactions. We ranked #1 in announced and completed global M&A for both the fourth quarter and the full year. We advised on nearly 400 transactions that closed during the year, representing approximately $1.2 trillion of deal volume. We also participated in announced transactions totaling nearly $1.3 trillion, which included over $450 billion from transactions below $5 billion in deal value, reflecting progress in broadening our client coverage."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Moving to Underwriting. Market volatility, declining equity prices and wider credit spreads weighed on issuer sentiment as net revenues were down 21% sequentially in the fourth quarter to $843 million. For the full year, Investment Banking net revenues were $7.9 billion, up 7% from 2017 on increases in both Financial Advisory and Underwriting. For 2018, in addition to our leading advisory position, we held the #1 position in equity underwriting globally. We were #2 in high yield and #4 in investment grade, reflecting our multiyear commitment to build our debt underwriting franchise."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Our Investment Banking franchise overall remains very well positioned and continues to grow. The strong performance reflects our continued focus on building long-term client relationships and our ongoing investment in talent and capabilities. We are ending 2018 with an Investment Banking backlog meaningfully higher than where we finished 2017, notwithstanding a decline versus last quarter. This increase comes despite the robust revenue production of 2018."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Turning to Institutional Client Services on Page 7. Net revenues were $2.4 billion in the fourth quarter, up 2% compared to the fourth quarter of last year. That's despite higher volatility and a difficult market backdrop, particularly in FICC. For the full year, ICS generated $13.5 billion of net revenues, up 13% compared to 2017, driven by healthier volumes, better wallet share and improved execution in certain of our businesses, notably in commodities. FICC client execution net revenues were $822 million in the fourth quarter, down 18% versus 2017 amid challenging market conditions, particularly in credit and, to a lesser extent, in rates. Credit accounted for roughly 3\/4 of the year-over-year decline. Results were impacted by a deteriorating environment in high-yield and distressed credit as spreads widened. Lower levels of liquidity further exacerbated the challenges. I would also note that there was no one particular position to call out as having a material effect."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"The remaining decrease reflected lower results in rates while the other FICC businesses were relatively consistent with last year's performance. While the fourth quarter was challenging due to the market environment, the overall business improved in 2018. For the full year, FICC net revenues were $5.9 billion, representing 11% year-over-year growth. Importantly, we continue to seek improvement in FICC performance through our strategic initiatives."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Conference Call Participants"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"First, we successfully increased our wallet share by 65 basis points since 2016 with our institutional client base per coalition. However, this provided a minimal top line benefit so far given the market backdrop. Nevertheless, we continue to broaden our client and product footprint and deepen our relationships to drive higher rankings and market share."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Second, we remained focused on leveraging our best-in-class Investment Banking relationships to better serve corporate clients. Our efforts are beginning to yield results in commodities and foreign exchange. This is important as we are not relying on a market turn to yield better results, but are looking to expand our client footprint."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Lastly, we remained focused on continued investments in engineering and electronification. The enhancements of platforms and processes will allow us to better serve our clients and further streamline expenses and capital. Our new platforms enable us to innovate at a faster pace, scale our businesses and deliver differentiated client-centric solutions to our institutional and corporate clients. To demonstrate the momentum we see, revenues in our FICC electronic business were up more than 40% last year."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Moving to Page 8. In Equities, as it relates to the fourth quarter, the story is a better one. Net revenues were up $1.6 billion, up 17% year-over-year. Equities client execution net revenues were up significantly versus a challenged fourth quarter of 2017, with better performance in cash. Commissions and fees were 9% higher, attributable to increased client activity, following the significant uptick in volatility, particularly in low touch where we continue to gain market share. Security services net revenues decreased slightly, reflecting lower average customer balances."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"For 2018, Equities produced net revenues of $7.6 billion, up 15% year-over-year. During the year, we continued to benefit from industry consolidation and ongoing efforts to increase client connectivity. Our share of global equity market volumes increased by over 100 basis points versus 2017 and included growth across all regions, reflecting a multiyear positive trend. We are optimistic that the theme of consolidation to scale providers can continue into 2019 as MiFID II only went live 12 months ago."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Moving on to equity Investing & Lending on Page 9. Equity securities generated net revenues of $1 billion in the quarter, reflecting continued strong results in private equity investments. Approximately 1\/2 of the net revenues were generated from real estate, which primarily reflected gains from sales. For the full year, equity Investing & Lending generated net revenues of $4.5 billion. Our global private and public equity portfolio consists of over 1,000 different investments and remains diversified across geography and investment vintage as seen on the slide. We continue to reinvest to drive future long-term performance, with 47% of the investments in the portfolio made in the last 4 years. The equity balance sheet ended the quarter at $21.4 billion, including a public portfolio of $1.4 billion and $20 billion of private equity. Revenues in equity I&L are also generated from our CIE investments of $13 billion, substantially all in real estate."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Moving on to debt Investing & Lending on Page 10. In the fourth quarter, net revenues from debt securities and loans were $912 million, largely driven by net interest income of roughly $800 million. For the full year, debt Investing & Lending generated $3.8 billion of net revenues, including net interest income of approximately $2.7 billion. I would point out that before accounting for future growth, we begin 2019 with an annualized net interest income run rate of $3.2 billion. Our debt Investing & Lending balance sheet, as shown on the lower left of Page 10, ended the quarter at $113 billion, which includes $94 billion in loans and $11 billion in debt securities. Our lending is franchise adjacent and continues to remain conservative with approximately 85% of our loan portfolio secured as of year-end. This quarter, we took provision for loan losses of $222 million, reflecting loan growth."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Turning to Investment Management on Page 11. The business produced net revenues of $1.7 billion in the fourth quarter, which were flat sequentially. Management and other fees were $1.4 billion; incentive fees were $153 million; and transaction revenues were $186 million. For the full year 2018, Investment Management net revenues were a record $7 billion, up 13% year-over-year, largely driven by growth in incentive fees and management and other fees. Assets under supervision finished 2018 at $1.54 trillion. For the full year, assets under supervision increased $48 billion resulting from $37 billion of long-term net inflows primarily in fixed income and equity assets and $52 billion of net inflows into liquidity products. Those were offset by net market depreciation of $41 billion primarily in equity. Over the trailing 5 years, we attracted total cumulative organic long-term net inflows of approximately $215 billion. The business remains well positioned for growth as we continue to invest in people and make bolt-on acquisitions to enhance our product offering to better serve our clients."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Now let me turn to Page 12 for expenses. As we continued to invest in our businesses, we will not lose focus on our expense discipline. It remains a priority for David, John and me. Before going through the details, I'll reiterate that we are undertaking a full review of our firm-wide expense base. Relatedly, and as part of the front-to-back reviews, we are holding businesses to a higher level of accountability with a focus on operating efficiency. For 2018, operating expenses were $23.5 billion, up 12%. Nonetheless, we maintained a stable efficiency ratio of approximately 64% as revenue growth funded investments in our business."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Let me take you through the components of our operating expenses. Compensation and benefits expense was up 6% for 2018, amounting to half the rate of growth in revenues. This translated into a compensation and net revenues ratio of 33.7%, down 190 basis points versus 2017. On a like-for-like basis, our compensation ratio declined approximately 100 basis points year-over-year."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Glenn Schorr - Evercore ISI"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Fourth quarter other operating expenses were $3.3 billion, which, as I mentioned earlier, included litigation expense of $516 million as well as a donation of $132 million to Goldman Sachs Gives, our donor advised charitable fund. For the full year, other operating expenses rose 20%, and roughly half of the increase related to client activity and investments for growth. This included an increase of $656 million in provisions related to litigation and regulatory proceedings, approximately $300 million of higher expenses relating to accounting changes due to the revenue recognition standard. But substantially all of the remaining increase of $892 million from investments to drive growth and higher activity reflected in brokerage, clearing and exchange fees."},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Moving on to taxes. As mentioned earlier, our tax rate for 2018 was 16%. Based on our current interpretations of the rules and legislative guidance to date, we expect our 2019 tax rate to be between 22% and 23%, excluding the impact of equity-based compensation."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning to Page 13 on Capital. Our Common Equity Tier 1 ratio was 13.3% using the standardized approach and 13.1% under the advanced approach, up 20 basis points and 70 basis points, respectively, versus the third quarter. The improvement in the advanced ratio reflected 80 basis points related to lower credit risk weighted assets due to inclusion of the firm's default experience into the determination of probability of default calculation. Our supplementing leverage ratio finished at 6.2%."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"For the full year, we repurchased 13.9 million shares of common stock worth $3.3 billion, contributing to a reduction in our basic share count of 8 million shares for the year, reaching a record new low. In addition, we paid out approximately $1.2 billion of common dividends over the course of the year. In total, we returned $4.5 billion of capital to shareholders in 2018."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Turning to balance sheet and liquidity on Page 14. Our global core liquid assets averaged $229 billion during the fourth quarter. Our balance sheet was $933 billion, down 3% versus last quarter. We continue to shift our funding mix from unsecured long-term debt to deposits. In our consumer deposits business, we have raised over $35 billion, including nearly $7 billion in the U.K. Raising incremental consumer deposits continues to benefit the firm through increased funding diversification, lower financing costs and capacity to increase business in our bank subsidiaries. For example, in addition to carrying out the vast majority of the firm's lending business, GS Bank USA conducts rates, an increasing component of our FX business."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Before taking questions, a few closing thoughts. We entered 2019 well positioned despite the recent market volatility. We remain committed to serving and growing our global client franchise, building on the progress made in 2018 and further expanding our addressable market in 2019 and beyond. To achieve this, we continue to invest in our franchise to broaden and improve our client capabilities through technology, talent and by engaging in new disruptive activities."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Lastly, the management team is motivated by the initial learnings from our front-to-back reviews. Our early work indicates the need for certain change, but also reinforces the strength and breadth of our franchise. We will share more with you in the coming months. The continued push to evolve our businesses will enable us to grow and deliver attractive long-term returns for our shareholders."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"With that, thanks again for dialing in, and we'll now open up the line for questions."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Question-and-Answer Session"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Michael Mayo - Wells Fargo Securities"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"[Operator Instructions]. Your first question is from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Glenn Schorr"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"And I want to talk about I&L. And it's a combo of -- in equity, I heard your comments about the public piece is a small piece, and I heard your comments about realizations were half from real estate or half of it was from real estate realizations. But curious if you can remind us how markets work in the private piece because, obviously, the public markets were down a lot, how much you use on DCF cash flow, EBITDA growth versus public comps?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Sure. Thanks, Glenn. I appreciate the question. So in the I&L space, and I'll focus on the equity side as that's in your question, the private portfolio obviously is now a much larger component of the whole relative to public securities. And when we look at valuation in that private portfolio, I would tell you that on a revenue basis in the private portfolio, about 50% of that revenue comes from events relating to the underlying companies and 50% relates to the operational progress in that particular business. And I'll just give you a couple of examples just to give you a sense of it. So if you look over the course of 2018 in the private portfolio, we saw sales across a number of different names: Hearthside Foods, Ipreo, PSAV, Paycor, Centaur Gaming. All of those were either sales or partial sales."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And together, those five names contributed to more than $500 million of revenue in the overall results of the firm. I'd also point out that in the context of events that play out, obviously, those are sales or partial sales, but there are other situations in which there are incremental rounds of equity that comes in to a particular name, where there's other financing that goes on around a name. Two names that I'll point out, which were significant contributors to the P&L in the I&L side on equity was Woowa, which is a Korean investment; and a name you'll no doubt know, which was Uber, as there were a -- there was a transaction in the tender into SoftBank into which we and others participated. And that, too, contributed to an uplift in the P&L relating to that name. So the point I want to convey to you is that much of what happens in the context and 50% of the P&L on that private portfolio is not related to modeling per se but rather is generated off of an event, an observable event that goes on. The other half relates to general performance of the business. And on that, as you could imagine, we deploy a number of different metrics in terms of how we arrive at valuation. But I think the important element to convey on that side is that there's a long history in the investing side, particularly in equity, in both sourcing interesting and sometimes unique opportunities for businesses that demonstrate stability and growth trajectory. And that performance feeds into the methodology we deploy against the private portfolio. And again, this is independent of event-driven situations themselves."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Glenn Schorr"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Okay. That's all very helpful, and it sets up for my follow-up on -- but I love the idea of the opening up of I&L. I'm curious in the vintage disclosure, it's hard to tell. But have you done any big raises in any of the prime funds in the last year or 2? And then more importantly, where are you in the process? In other words, I love the concept, house performance. Do you need to add staff? Do you need to build out on distribution? Or is it as simple as get your docs order and put out a new fund?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"David Solomon"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"So I'll start, Glenn, and I'll just comment. Obviously, we've been in these businesses for a long time. And as I know you appreciate, there's been an evolving multiple businesses, and there's also been an evolving regulatory front that let us down certain paths with respect to the businesses. We do raise funds, and we have gone back in, for example, our traditional merchant banking private equity business to raising a fund. In the last 18 months, we raised an $8 billion or $9 billion fund. That's called Goldman Sachs Capital Partners VII, which is pretty much all client money. We have a plan, a current plan that raises -- and has a number of fundraisers over the course of the next couple of years. That's an existing plan, and it's something we've been doing. What we've identified that we think is a real opportunity given the scope of the magnitude of all the platforms over the firm is to add some resources and broaden the plan to raise more money off the capital given the uniqueness of our platforms and the uniqueness of our sourcing capability. And when you look at that opportunity and you compare what would be significant growth for us compared to other people that are in that business given our platform, our investing resources and our capability to manage money for institutional and individual clients, we have meaningful growth without setting overly ambitious targets. So we are in the process of outlining that all in a much more clear way. There will be some hiring and additional resources that need to be added, but it's not a significant build because the fundamental investing platforms exist, and there's more opportunity to leverage that."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Chinedu Bolu - Sanford C. Bernstein & Co."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Operator"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Your next question is from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America Merrill Lynch."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Michael Carrier"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Stephen, maybe one more, just on the I&L business. It's obviously one that's tough to predict. But when I think about some of the sales that you mentioned and how that drove the benefit in the quarter, can you give us any kind of color or indication of maybe what the value is in the portfolio versus, like, the cost base? Just to get some sense on maybe what the potential, like, realizations as you have these sales over the next year or 2 could potentially be?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"Sure. Thanks for the question. I think it's difficult for me to give you a sense of the delta in the [Technical Difficulty] relative to where we carry it. I would ask you to sort of rely more on the progression and the stability and sustainability of this business just in terms of what it has produced for many, many quarters over several years in the context of the investing. And I think that the strength of that franchise and the strength of the investing is sort of an adjacent thread that runs across the whole of the firm, which is that the Investment Banking franchise is an extraordinary sourcing engine off of which we look to make these investments. And we try to find opportunities where there is considerable opportunity for growth. What I sense in your question is the sort of distinction, if you will, between realized and unrealized gain. Part of what I wanted to point out in answering the prior question is that there's a good deal here of realized gain in the book and a continual velocity turn in the portfolio, and sales or partial sales sort of are one part of that. And then looking at the performance of the business is quite another. David and I have committed ourselves, and I've said this now several times, that our ambition is to put more light into the I&L segment, just given what it produces and how it is a major component piece. I know that you asked on the equity side. Let me just spend 2 seconds on the debt side of I&L, which I think has even greater durability and predictability to it. So this is where we are making debt investments or expanding credit in and around the adjacencies of the firm, whether it's the corporates or others who are themselves clients of the firm. We're doing that high up in the capital structure, and we've developed a portfolio that is about 85% secured."},{"sentiment":"positive","text":"And that has thrown up, as I said in my comments, about $2.7 billion of net interest income, with a run rate exiting Q4 of about $800 million in the quarter. And we think that's part of a more durable, more visible, more recurring set of revenue as part of the overall I&L picture itself."},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Michael Carrier"},{"sentiment":"negative","text":"Okay. And then just as a follow-up. Just on the expense side. So obviously 2018, I think you got some moving pieces with the -- some of the legal. But just when you think about some of the investments that you guys have been making in some of the new growth initiatives on the technology side, how should we be thinking about the run rate going into '19 and '20 in an environment where obviously the market has been a bit more volatile more recently?"},{"sentiment":"neutral","text":"Stephen Scherr"}]